This is ../info/calc, produced by makeinfo version 4.8 from calc.texi.

   This file documents Calc, the GNU Emacs calculator.

   Copyright (C) 1990, 1991, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
Free Software Foundation, Inc.

     Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
     document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
     Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software
     Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being just "GNU GENERAL
     PUBLIC LICENSE", with the Front-Cover texts being "A GNU Manual,"
     and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
     license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
     Documentation License."

     (a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have freedom to copy and
     modify this GNU Manual, like GNU software.  Copies published by
     the Free Software Foundation raise funds for GNU development."

INFO-DIR-SECTION Emacs
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* Calc: (calc).         Advanced desk calculator and mathematical tool.
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY


File: calc,  Node: Computational Lisp Functions,  Next: Vector Lisp Functions,  Prev: Predicates,  Up: Internals

19.5.7.5 Computational Functions
................................

The functions described here do the actual computational work of the
Calculator.  In addition to these, note that any function described in
the main body of this manual may be called from Lisp; for example, if
the documentation refers to the `calc-sqrt' [`sqrt'] command, this
means `calc-sqrt' is an interactive stack-based square-root command and
`sqrt' (which `defmath' expands to `calcFunc-sqrt') is the actual Lisp
function for taking square roots.

   The functions `math-add', `math-sub', `math-mul', `math-div',
`math-mod', and `math-neg' are not included in this list, since
`defmath' allows you to write native Lisp `+', `-', `*', `/', `%', and
unary `-', respectively, instead.

 -- Function: normalize val
     (Full form: `math-normalize'.)  Reduce the value VAL to standard
     form.  For example, if VAL is a fixnum, it will be converted to a
     bignum if it is too large, and if VAL is a bignum it will be
     normalized by clipping off trailing (i.e., most-significant) zero
     digits and converting to a fixnum if it is small.  All the various
     data types are similarly converted to their standard forms.
     Variables are left alone, but function calls are actually evaluated
     in formulas.  For example, normalizing `(+ 2 (calcFunc-abs -4))'
     will return 6.

     If a function call fails, because the function is void or has the
     wrong number of parameters, or because it returns `nil' or calls
     `reject-arg' or `inexact-result', `normalize' returns the formula
     still in symbolic form.

     If the current simplification mode is "none" or "numeric arguments
     only," `normalize' will act appropriately.  However, the more
     powerful simplification modes (like Algebraic Simplification) are
     not handled by `normalize'.  They are handled by `calc-normalize',
     which calls `normalize' and possibly some other routines, such as
     `simplify' or `simplify-units'.  Programs generally will never
     call `calc-normalize' except when popping or pushing values on the
     stack.

 -- Function: evaluate-expr expr
     Replace all variables in EXPR that have values with their values,
     then use `normalize' to simplify the result.  This is what happens
     when you press the `=' key interactively.

 -- Macro: with-extra-prec n body
     Evaluate the Lisp forms in BODY with precision increased by N
     digits.  This is a macro which expands to

          (math-normalize
            (let ((calc-internal-prec (+ calc-internal-prec N)))
              BODY))

     The surrounding call to `math-normalize' causes a floating-point
     result to be rounded down to the original precision afterwards.
     This is important because some arithmetic operations assume a
     number's mantissa contains no more digits than the current
     precision allows.

 -- Function: make-frac n d
     Build a fraction `N:D'.  This is equivalent to calling `(normalize
     (list 'frac N D))', but more efficient.

 -- Function: make-float mant exp
     Build a floating-point value out of MANT and EXP, both of which
     are arbitrary integers.  This function will return a properly
     normalized float value, or signal an overflow or underflow if EXP
     is out of range.

 -- Function: make-sdev x sigma
     Build an error form out of X and the absolute value of SIGMA.  If
     SIGMA is zero, the result is the number X directly.  If SIGMA is
     negative or complex, its absolute value is used.  If X or SIGMA is
     not a valid type of object for use in error forms, this calls
     `reject-arg'.

 -- Function: make-intv mask lo hi
     Build an interval form out of MASK (which is assumed to be an
     integer from 0 to 3), and the limits LO and HI.  If LO is greater
     than HI, an empty interval form is returned.  This calls
     `reject-arg' if LO or HI is unsuitable.

 -- Function: sort-intv mask lo hi
     Build an interval form, similar to `make-intv', except that if LO
     is less than HI they are simply exchanged, and the bits of MASK
     are swapped accordingly.

 -- Function: make-mod n m
     Build a modulo form out of N and the modulus M.  Since modulo
     forms do not allow formulas as their components, if N or M is not
     a real number or HMS form the result will be a formula which is a
     call to `makemod', the algebraic version of this function.

 -- Function: float x
     Convert X to floating-point form.  Integers and fractions are
     converted to numerically equivalent floats; components of complex
     numbers, vectors, HMS forms, date forms, error forms, intervals,
     and modulo forms are recursively floated.  If the argument is a
     variable or formula, this calls `reject-arg'.

 -- Function: compare x y
     Compare the numbers X and Y, and return -1 if `(lessp X Y)', 1 if
     `(lessp Y X)', 0 if `(math-equal X Y)', or 2 if the order is
     undefined or cannot be determined.

 -- Function: numdigs n
     Return the number of digits of integer N, effectively
     `ceil(log10(N))', but much more efficient.  Zero is considered to
     have zero digits.

 -- Function: scale-int x n
     Shift integer X left N decimal digits, or right -N digits with
     truncation toward zero.

 -- Function: scale-rounding x n
     Like `scale-int', except that a right shift rounds to the nearest
     integer rather than truncating.

 -- Function: fixnum n
     Return the integer N as a fixnum, i.e., a native Lisp integer.  If
     N is outside the permissible range for Lisp integers (usually 24
     binary bits) the result is undefined.

 -- Function: sqr x
     Compute the square of X; short for `(* X X)'.

 -- Function: quotient x y
     Divide integer X by integer Y; return an integer quotient and
     discard the remainder.  If X or Y is negative, the direction of
     rounding is undefined.

 -- Function: idiv x y
     Perform an integer division; if X and Y are both nonnegative
     integers, this uses the `quotient' function, otherwise it computes
     `floor(X/Y)'.  Thus the result is well-defined but slower than for
     `quotient'.

 -- Function: imod x y
     Divide integer X by integer Y; return the integer remainder and
     discard the quotient.  Like `quotient', this works only for
     integer arguments and is not well-defined for negative arguments.
     For a more well-defined result, use `(% X Y)'.

 -- Function: idivmod x y
     Divide integer X by integer Y; return a cons cell whose `car' is
     `(quotient X Y)' and whose `cdr' is `(imod X Y)'.

 -- Function: pow x y
     Compute X to the power Y.  In `defmath' code, this can also be
     written `(^ X Y)' or `(expt X Y)'.

 -- Function: abs-approx x
     Compute a fast approximation to the absolute value of X.  For
     example, for a rectangular complex number the result is the sum of
     the absolute values of the components.

 -- Function: pi
     The function `(pi)' computes `pi' to the current precision.  Other
     related constant-generating functions are `two-pi', `pi-over-2',
     `pi-over-4', `pi-over-180', `sqrt-two-pi', `e', `sqrt-e', `ln-2',
     `ln-10', `phi' and `gamma-const'.  Each function returns a
     floating-point value in the current precision, and each uses
     caching so that all calls after the first are essentially free.

 -- Macro: math-defcache FUNC INITIAL FORM
     This macro, usually used as a top-level call like `defun' or
     `defvar', defines a new cached constant analogous to `pi', etc.
     It defines a function `func' which returns the requested value; if
     INITIAL is non-`nil' it must be a `(float ...)' form which serves
     as an initial value for the cache.  If FUNC is called when the
     cache is empty or does not have enough digits to satisfy the
     current precision, the Lisp expression FORM is evaluated with the
     current precision increased by four, and the result minus its two
     least significant digits is stored in the cache.  For example,
     calling `(pi)' with a precision of 30 computes `pi' to 34 digits,
     rounds it down to 32 digits for future use, then rounds it again
     to 30 digits for use in the present request.

 -- Function: full-circle symb
     If the current angular mode is Degrees or HMS, this function
     returns the integer 360.  In Radians mode, this function returns
     either the corresponding value in radians to the current
     precision, or the formula `2*pi', depending on the Symbolic mode.
     There are also similar function `half-circle' and `quarter-circle'.

 -- Function: power-of-2 n
     Compute two to the integer power N, as a (potentially very large)
     integer.  Powers of two are cached, so only the first call for a
     particular N is expensive.

 -- Function: integer-log2 n
     Compute the base-2 logarithm of N, which must be an integer which
     is a power of two.  If N is not a power of two, this function will
     return `nil'.

 -- Function: div-mod a b m
     Divide A by B, modulo M.  This returns `nil' if there is no
     solution, or if any of the arguments are not integers.

 -- Function: pow-mod a b m
     Compute A to the power B, modulo M.  If A, B, and M are integers,
     this uses an especially efficient algorithm.  Otherwise, it simply
     computes `(% (^ a b) m)'.

 -- Function: isqrt n
     Compute the integer square root of N.  This is the square root of
     N rounded down toward zero, i.e., `floor(sqrt(N))'.  If N is
     itself an integer, the computation is especially efficient.

 -- Function: to-hms a ang
     Convert the argument A into an HMS form.  If ANG is specified, it
     is the angular mode in which to interpret A, either `deg' or
     `rad'.  Otherwise, the current angular mode is used.  If A is
     already an HMS form it is returned as-is.

 -- Function: from-hms a ang
     Convert the HMS form A into a real number.  If ANG is specified,
     it is the angular mode in which to express the result, otherwise
     the current angular mode is used.  If A is already a real number,
     it is returned as-is.

 -- Function: to-radians a
     Convert the number or HMS form A to radians from the current
     angular mode.

 -- Function: from-radians a
     Convert the number A from radians to the current angular mode.  If
     A is a formula, this returns the formula `deg(A)'.

 -- Function: to-radians-2 a
     Like `to-radians', except that in Symbolic mode a degrees to
     radians conversion yields a formula like `A*pi/180'.

 -- Function: from-radians-2 a
     Like `from-radians', except that in Symbolic mode a radians to
     degrees conversion yields a formula like `A*180/pi'.

 -- Function: random-digit
     Produce a random base-1000 digit in the range 0 to 999.

 -- Function: random-digits n
     Produce a random N-digit integer; this will be an integer in the
     interval `[0, 10^N)'.

 -- Function: random-float
     Produce a random float in the interval `[0, 1)'.

 -- Function: prime-test n iters
     Determine whether the integer N is prime.  Return a list which has
     one of these forms: `(nil F)' means the number is non-prime
     because it was found to be divisible by F; `(nil)' means it was
     found to be non-prime by table look-up (so no factors are known);
     `(nil unknown)' means it is definitely non-prime but no factors
     are known because N was large enough that Fermat's probabilistic
     test had to be used; `(t)' means the number is definitely prime;
     and `(maybe I P)' means that Fermat's test, after I iterations, is
     P percent sure that the number is prime.  The ITERS parameter is
     the number of Fermat iterations to use, in the case that this is
     necessary.  If `prime-test' returns "maybe," you can call it again
     with the same N to get a greater certainty; `prime-test' remembers
     where it left off.

 -- Function: to-simple-fraction f
     If F is a floating-point number which can be represented exactly
     as a small rational number. return that number, else return F.
     For example, 0.75 would be converted to 3:4.  This function is very
     fast.

 -- Function: to-fraction f tol
     Find a rational approximation to floating-point number F to within
     a specified tolerance TOL; this corresponds to the algebraic
     function `frac', and can be rather slow.

 -- Function: quarter-integer n
     If N is an integer or integer-valued float, this function returns
     zero.  If N is a half-integer (i.e., an integer plus 1:2 or 0.5),
     it returns 2.  If N is a quarter-integer, it returns 1 or 3.  If N
     is anything else, this function returns `nil'.


File: calc,  Node: Vector Lisp Functions,  Next: Symbolic Lisp Functions,  Prev: Computational Lisp Functions,  Up: Internals

19.5.7.6 Vector Functions
.........................

The functions described here perform various operations on vectors and
matrices.

 -- Function: math-concat x y
     Do a vector concatenation; this operation is written `X | Y' in a
     symbolic formula.  *Note Building Vectors::.

 -- Function: vec-length v
     Return the length of vector V.  If V is not a vector, the result
     is zero.  If V is a matrix, this returns the number of rows in the
     matrix.

 -- Function: mat-dimens m
     Determine the dimensions of vector or matrix M.  If M is not a
     vector, the result is an empty list.  If M is a plain vector but
     not a matrix, the result is a one-element list containing the
     length of the vector.  If M is a matrix with R rows and C columns,
     the result is the list `(R C)'.  Higher-order tensors produce
     lists of more than two dimensions.  Note that the object `[[1, 2,
     3], [4, 5]]' is a vector of vectors not all the same size, and is
     treated by this and other Calc routines as a plain vector of two
     elements.

 -- Function: dimension-error
     Abort the current function with a message of "Dimension error."
     The Calculator will leave the function being evaluated in symbolic
     form; this is really just a special case of `reject-arg'.

 -- Function: build-vector args
     Return a Calc vector with ARGS as elements.  For example,
     `(build-vector 1 2 3)' returns the Calc vector `[1, 2, 3]', stored
     internally as the list `(vec 1 2 3)'.

 -- Function: make-vec obj dims
     Return a Calc vector or matrix all of whose elements are equal to
     OBJ.  For example, `(make-vec 27 3 4)' returns a 3x4 matrix filled
     with 27's.

 -- Function: row-matrix v
     If V is a plain vector, convert it into a row matrix, i.e., a
     matrix whose single row is V.  If V is already a matrix, leave it
     alone.

 -- Function: col-matrix v
     If V is a plain vector, convert it into a column matrix, i.e., a
     matrix with each element of V as a separate row.  If V is already
     a matrix, leave it alone.

 -- Function: map-vec f v
     Map the Lisp function F over the Calc vector V.  For example,
     `(map-vec 'math-floor v)' returns a vector of the floored
     components of vector V.

 -- Function: map-vec-2 f a b
     Map the Lisp function F over the two vectors A and B.  If A and B
     are vectors of equal length, the result is a vector of the results
     of calling `(F AI BI)' for each pair of elements AI and BI.  If
     either A or B is a scalar, it is matched with each value of the
     other vector.  For example, `(map-vec-2 'math-add v 1)' returns
     the vector V with each element increased by one.  Note that using
     `'+' would not work here, since `defmath' does not expand function
     names everywhere, just where they are in the function position of
     a Lisp expression.

 -- Function: reduce-vec f v
     Reduce the function F over the vector V.  For example, if V is
     `[10, 20, 30, 40]', this calls `(f (f (f 10 20) 30) 40)'.  If V is
     a matrix, this reduces over the rows of V.

 -- Function: reduce-cols f m
     Reduce the function F over the columns of matrix M.  For example,
     if M is `[[1, 2], [3, 4], [5, 6]]', the result is a vector of the
     two elements `(f (f 1 3) 5)' and `(f (f 2 4) 6)'.

 -- Function: mat-row m n
     Return the Nth row of matrix M.  This is equivalent to `(elt m
     n)'.  For a slower but safer version, use `mrow'.  (*Note
     Extracting Elements::.)

 -- Function: mat-col m n
     Return the Nth column of matrix M, in the form of a vector.  The
     arguments are not checked for correctness.

 -- Function: mat-less-row m n
     Return a copy of matrix M with its Nth row deleted.  The number N
     must be in range from 1 to the number of rows in M.

 -- Function: mat-less-col m n
     Return a copy of matrix M with its Nth column deleted.

 -- Function: transpose m
     Return the transpose of matrix M.

 -- Function: flatten-vector v
     Flatten nested vector V into a vector of scalars.  For example, if
     V is `[[1, 2, 3], [4, 5]]' the result is `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]'.

 -- Function: copy-matrix m
     If M is a matrix, return a copy of M.  This maps `copy-sequence'
     over the rows of M; in Lisp terms, each element of the result
     matrix will be `eq' to the corresponding element of M, but none of
     the `cons' cells that make up the structure of the matrix will be
     `eq'.  If M is a plain vector, this is the same as `copy-sequence'.

 -- Function: swap-rows m r1 r2
     Exchange rows R1 and R2 of matrix M in-place.  In other words,
     unlike most of the other functions described here, this function
     changes M itself rather than building up a new result matrix.  The
     return value is M, i.e., `(eq (swap-rows m 1 2) m)' is true, with
     the side effect of exchanging the first two rows of M.


File: calc,  Node: Symbolic Lisp Functions,  Next: Formatting Lisp Functions,  Prev: Vector Lisp Functions,  Up: Internals

19.5.7.7 Symbolic Functions
...........................

The functions described here operate on symbolic formulas in the
Calculator.

 -- Function: calc-prepare-selection num
     Prepare a stack entry for selection operations.  If NUM is
     omitted, the stack entry containing the cursor is used; otherwise,
     it is the number of the stack entry to use.  This function stores
     useful information about the current stack entry into a set of
     variables.  `calc-selection-cache-num' contains the number of the
     stack entry involved (equal to NUM if you specified it);
     `calc-selection-cache-entry' contains the stack entry as a list
     (such as `calc-top-list' would return with `entry' as the
     selection mode); and `calc-selection-cache-comp' contains a
     special "tagged" composition (*note Formatting Lisp Functions::)
     which allows Calc to relate cursor positions in the buffer with
     their corresponding sub-formulas.

     A slight complication arises in the selection mechanism because
     formulas may contain small integers.  For example, in the vector
     `[1, 2, 1]' the first and last elements are `eq' to each other;
     selections are recorded as the actual Lisp object that appears
     somewhere in the tree of the whole formula, but storing `1' would
     falsely select both `1''s in the vector.  So
     `calc-prepare-selection' also checks the stack entry and replaces
     any plain integers with "complex number" lists of the form `(cplx
     N 0)'.  This list will be displayed the same as a plain N and the
     change will be completely invisible to the user, but it will
     guarantee that no two sub-formulas of the stack entry will be `eq'
     to each other.  Next time the stack entry is involved in a
     computation, `calc-normalize' will replace these lists with plain
     numbers again, again invisibly to the user.

 -- Function: calc-encase-atoms x
     This modifies the formula X to ensure that each part of the
     formula is a unique atom, using the `(cplx N 0)' trick described
     above.  This function may use `setcar' to modify the formula
     in-place.

 -- Function: calc-find-selected-part
     Find the smallest sub-formula of the current formula that contains
     the cursor.  This assumes `calc-prepare-selection' has been called
     already.  If the cursor is not actually on any part of the
     formula, this returns `nil'.

 -- Function: calc-change-current-selection selection
     Change the currently prepared stack element's selection to
     SELECTION, which should be `eq' to some sub-formula of the stack
     element, or `nil' to unselect the formula.  The stack element's
     appearance in the Calc buffer is adjusted to reflect the new
     selection.

 -- Function: calc-find-nth-part expr n
     Return the Nth sub-formula of EXPR.  This function is used by the
     selection commands, and (unless `j b' has been used) treats sums
     and products as flat many-element formulas.  Thus if EXPR is `((a
     + b) - c) + d', calling `calc-find-nth-part' with N equal to four
     will return `d'.

 -- Function: calc-find-parent-formula expr part
     Return the sub-formula of EXPR which immediately contains PART.
     If EXPR is `a*b + (c+1)*d' and PART is `eq' to the `c+1' term of
     EXPR, then this function will return `(c+1)*d'.  If PART turns out
     not to be a sub-formula of EXPR, the function returns `nil'.  If
     PART is `eq' to EXPR, the function returns `t'.  This function
     does not take associativity into account.

 -- Function: calc-find-assoc-parent-formula expr part
     This is the same as `calc-find-parent-formula', except that
     (unless `j b' has been used) it continues widening the selection
     to contain a complete level of the formula.  Given `a' from `((a +
     b) - c) + d', `calc-find-parent-formula' will return `a + b' but
     `calc-find-assoc-parent-formula' will return the whole expression.

 -- Function: calc-grow-assoc-formula expr part
     This expands sub-formula PART of EXPR to encompass a complete
     level of the formula.  If PART and its immediate parent are not
     compatible associative operators, or if `j b' has been used, this
     simply returns PART.

 -- Function: calc-find-sub-formula expr part
     This finds the immediate sub-formula of EXPR which contains PART.
     It returns an index N such that `(calc-find-nth-part EXPR N)'
     would return PART.  If PART is not a sub-formula of EXPR, it
     returns `nil'.  If PART is `eq' to EXPR, it returns `t'.  This
     function does not take associativity into account.

 -- Function: calc-replace-sub-formula expr old new
     This function returns a copy of formula EXPR, with the sub-formula
     that is `eq' to OLD replaced by NEW.

 -- Function: simplify expr
     Simplify the expression EXPR by applying various algebraic rules.
     This is what the `a s' (`calc-simplify') command uses.  This
     always returns a copy of the expression; the structure EXPR points
     to remains unchanged in memory.

     More precisely, here is what `simplify' does:  The expression is
     first normalized and evaluated by calling `normalize'.  If any
     `AlgSimpRules' have been defined, they are then applied.  Then the
     expression is traversed in a depth-first, bottom-up fashion; at
     each level, any simplifications that can be made are made until no
     further changes are possible.  Once the entire formula has been
     traversed in this way, it is compared with the original formula
     (from before the call to `normalize') and, if it has changed, the
     entire procedure is repeated (starting with `normalize') until no
     further changes occur.  Usually only two iterations are needed:
     one to simplify the formula, and another to verify that no further
     simplifications were possible.

 -- Function: simplify-extended expr
     Simplify the expression EXPR, with additional rules enabled that
     help do a more thorough job, while not being entirely "safe" in all
     circumstances.  (For example, this mode will simplify `sqrt(x^2)'
     to `x', which is only valid when X is positive.)  This is
     implemented by temporarily binding the variable
     `math-living-dangerously' to `t' (using a `let' form) and calling
     `simplify'.  Dangerous simplification rules are written to check
     this variable before taking any action.

 -- Function: simplify-units expr
     Simplify the expression EXPR, treating variable names as units
     whenever possible.  This works by binding the variable
     `math-simplifying-units' to `t' while calling `simplify'.

 -- Macro: math-defsimplify funcs body
     Register a new simplification rule; this is normally called as a
     top-level form, like `defun' or `defmath'.  If FUNCS is a symbol
     (like `+' or `calcFunc-sqrt'), this simplification rule is applied
     to the formulas which are calls to the specified function.  Or,
     FUNCS can be a list of such symbols; the rule applies to all
     functions on the list.  The BODY is written like the body of a
     function with a single argument called `expr'.  The body will be
     executed with `expr' bound to a formula which is a call to one of
     the functions FUNCS.  If the function body returns `nil', or if it
     returns a result `equal' to the original `expr', it is ignored and
     Calc goes on to try the next simplification rule that applies.  If
     the function body returns something different, that new formula is
     substituted for EXPR in the original formula.

     At each point in the formula, rules are tried in the order of the
     original calls to `math-defsimplify'; the search stops after the
     first rule that makes a change.  Thus later rules for that same
     function will not have a chance to trigger until the next iteration
     of the main `simplify' loop.

     Note that, since `defmath' is not being used here, BODY must be
     written in true Lisp code without the conveniences that `defmath'
     provides.  If you prefer, you can have BODY simply call another
     function (defined with `defmath') which does the real work.

     The arguments of a function call will already have been simplified
     before any rules for the call itself are invoked.  Since a new
     argument list is consed up when this happens, this means that the
     rule's body is allowed to rearrange the function's arguments
     destructively if that is convenient.  Here is a typical example of
     a simplification rule:

          (math-defsimplify calcFunc-arcsinh
            (or (and (math-looks-negp (nth 1 expr))
                     (math-neg (list 'calcFunc-arcsinh
                                     (math-neg (nth 1 expr)))))
                (and (eq (car-safe (nth 1 expr)) 'calcFunc-sinh)
                     (or math-living-dangerously
                         (math-known-realp (nth 1 (nth 1 expr))))
                     (nth 1 (nth 1 expr)))))

     This is really a pair of rules written with one `math-defsimplify'
     for convenience; the first replaces `arcsinh(-x)' with
     `-arcsinh(x)', and the second, which is safe only for real `x',
     replaces `arcsinh(sinh(x))' with `x'.

 -- Function: common-constant-factor expr
     Check EXPR to see if it is a sum of terms all multiplied by the
     same rational value.  If so, return this value.  If not, return
     `nil'.  For example, if called on `6x + 9y + 12z', it would return
     3, since 3 is a common factor of all the terms.

 -- Function: cancel-common-factor expr factor
     Assuming EXPR is a sum with FACTOR as a common factor, divide each
     term of the sum by FACTOR.  This is done by destructively
     modifying parts of EXPR, on the assumption that it is being used
     by a simplification rule (where such things are allowed; see
     above).  For example, consider this built-in rule for square roots:

          (math-defsimplify calcFunc-sqrt
            (let ((fac (math-common-constant-factor (nth 1 expr))))
              (and fac (not (eq fac 1))
                   (math-mul (math-normalize (list 'calcFunc-sqrt fac))
                             (math-normalize
                              (list 'calcFunc-sqrt
                                    (math-cancel-common-factor
                                     (nth 1 expr) fac)))))))

 -- Function: frac-gcd a b
     Compute a "rational GCD" of A and B, which must both be rational
     numbers.  This is the fraction composed of the GCD of the
     numerators of A and B, over the GCD of the denominators.  It is
     used by `common-constant-factor'.  Note that the standard `gcd'
     function uses the LCM to combine the denominators.

 -- Function: map-tree func expr many
     Try applying Lisp function FUNC to various sub-expressions of
     EXPR.  Initially, call FUNC with EXPR itself as an argument.  If
     this returns an expression which is not `equal' to EXPR, apply
     FUNC again until eventually it does return EXPR with no changes.
     Then, if EXPR is a function call, recursively apply FUNC to each
     of the arguments.  This keeps going until no changes occur
     anywhere in the expression; this final expression is returned by
     `map-tree'.  Note that, unlike simplification rules, FUNC
     functions may _not_ make destructive changes to EXPR.  If a third
     argument MANY is provided, it is an integer which says how many
     times FUNC may be applied; the default, as described above, is
     infinitely many times.

 -- Function: compile-rewrites rules
     Compile the rewrite rule set specified by RULES, which should be a
     formula that is either a vector or a variable name.  If the latter,
     the compiled rules are saved so that later `compile-rules' calls
     for that same variable can return immediately.  If there are
     problems with the rules, this function calls `error' with a
     suitable message.

 -- Function: apply-rewrites expr crules heads
     Apply the compiled rewrite rule set CRULES to the expression EXPR.
     This will make only one rewrite and only checks at the top level
     of the expression.  The result `nil' if no rules matched, or if
     the only rules that matched did not actually change the
     expression.  The HEADS argument is optional; if is given, it
     should be a list of all function names that (may) appear in EXPR.
     The rewrite compiler tags each rule with the rarest-looking
     function name in the rule; if you specify HEADS, `apply-rewrites'
     can use this information to narrow its search down to just a few
     rules in the rule set.

 -- Function: rewrite-heads expr
     Compute a HEADS list for EXPR suitable for use with
     `apply-rewrites', as discussed above.

 -- Function: rewrite expr rules many
     This is an all-in-one rewrite function.  It compiles the rule set
     specified by RULES, then uses `map-tree' to apply the rules
     throughout EXPR up to MANY (default infinity) times.

 -- Function: match-patterns pat vec not-flag
     Given a Calc vector VEC and an uncompiled pattern set or pattern
     set variable PAT, this function returns a new vector of all
     elements of VEC which do (or don't, if NOT-FLAG is non-`nil')
     match any of the patterns in PAT.

 -- Function: deriv expr var value symb
     Compute the derivative of EXPR with respect to variable VAR (which
     may actually be any sub-expression).  If VALUE is specified, the
     derivative is evaluated at the value of VAR; otherwise, the
     derivative is left in terms of VAR.  If the expression contains
     functions for which no derivative formula is known, new derivative
     functions are invented by adding primes to the names; *note
     Calculus::.  However, if SYMB is non-`nil', the presence of
     undifferentiable functions in EXPR instead cancels the whole
     differentiation, and `deriv' returns `nil' instead.

     Derivatives of an N-argument function can be defined by adding a
     `math-derivative-N' property to the property list of the symbol
     for the function's derivative, which will be the function name
     followed by an apostrophe.  The value of the property should be a
     Lisp function; it is called with the same arguments as the
     original function call that is being differentiated.  It should
     return a formula for the derivative.  For example, the derivative
     of `ln' is defined by

          (put 'calcFunc-ln\' 'math-derivative-1
               (function (lambda (u) (math-div 1 u))))

     The two-argument `log' function has two derivatives,
          (put 'calcFunc-log\' 'math-derivative-2     ; d(log(x,b)) / dx
               (function (lambda (x b) ... )))
          (put 'calcFunc-log\'2 'math-derivative-2    ; d(log(x,b)) / db
               (function (lambda (x b) ... )))

 -- Function: tderiv expr var value symb
     Compute the total derivative of EXPR.  This is the same as
     `deriv', except that variables other than VAR are not assumed to
     be constant with respect to VAR.

 -- Function: integ expr var low high
     Compute the integral of EXPR with respect to VAR.  *Note
     Calculus::, for further details.

 -- Macro: math-defintegral funcs body
     Define a rule for integrating a function or functions of one
     argument; this macro is very similar in format to
     `math-defsimplify'.  The main difference is that here BODY is the
     body of a function with a single argument `u' which is bound to
     the argument to the function being integrated, not the function
     call itself.  Also, the variable of integration is available as
     `math-integ-var'.  If evaluation of the integral requires doing
     further integrals, the body should call `(math-integral X)' to
     find the integral of X with respect to `math-integ-var'; this
     function returns `nil' if the integral could not be done.  Some
     examples:

          (math-defintegral calcFunc-conj
            (let ((int (math-integral u)))
              (and int
                   (list 'calcFunc-conj int))))

          (math-defintegral calcFunc-cos
            (and (equal u math-integ-var)
                 (math-from-radians-2 (list 'calcFunc-sin u))))

     In the `cos' example, we define only the integral of `cos(x) dx',
     relying on the general integration-by-substitution facility to
     handle cosines of more complicated arguments.  An integration rule
     should return `nil' if it can't do the integral; if several rules
     are defined for the same function, they are tried in order until
     one returns a non-`nil' result.

 -- Macro: math-defintegral-2 funcs body
     Define a rule for integrating a function or functions of two
     arguments.  This is exactly analogous to `math-defintegral',
     except that BODY is written as the body of a function with two
     arguments, U and V.

 -- Function: solve-for lhs rhs var full
     Attempt to solve the equation `LHS = RHS' by isolating the
     variable VAR on the lefthand side; return the resulting righthand
     side, or `nil' if the equation cannot be solved.  The variable VAR
     must appear at least once in LHS or RHS.  Note that the return
     value is a formula which does not contain VAR; this is different
     from the user-level `solve' and `finv' functions, which return a
     rearranged equation or a functional inverse, respectively.  If
     FULL is non-`nil', a full solution including dummy signs and dummy
     integers will be produced.  User-defined inverses are provided as
     properties in a manner similar to derivatives:

          (put 'calcFunc-ln 'math-inverse
               (function (lambda (x) (list 'calcFunc-exp x))))

     This function can call `(math-solve-get-sign X)' to create a new
     arbitrary sign variable, returning X times that sign, and
     `(math-solve-get-int X)' to create a new arbitrary integer
     variable multiplied by X.  These functions simply return X if the
     caller requested a non-"full" solution.

 -- Function: solve-eqn expr var full
     This version of `solve-for' takes an expression which will
     typically be an equation or inequality.  (If it is not, it will be
     interpreted as the equation `EXPR = 0'.)  It returns an equation
     or inequality, or `nil' if no solution could be found.

 -- Function: solve-system exprs vars full
     This function solves a system of equations.  Generally, EXPRS and
     VARS will be vectors of equal length.  *Note Solving Systems of
     Equations::, for other options.

 -- Function: expr-contains expr var
     Returns a non-`nil' value if VAR occurs as a subexpression of EXPR.

     This function might seem at first to be identical to
     `calc-find-sub-formula'.  The key difference is that
     `expr-contains' uses `equal' to test for matches, whereas
     `calc-find-sub-formula' uses `eq'.  In the formula `f(a, a)', the
     two `a's will be `equal' but not `eq' to each other.

 -- Function: expr-contains-count expr var
     Returns the number of occurrences of VAR as a subexpression of
     EXPR, or `nil' if there are no occurrences.

 -- Function: expr-depends expr var
     Returns true if EXPR refers to any variable the occurs in VAR.  In
     other words, it checks if EXPR and VAR have any variables in
     common.

 -- Function: expr-contains-vars expr
     Return true if EXPR contains any variables, or `nil' if EXPR
     contains only constants and functions with constant arguments.

 -- Function: expr-subst expr old new
     Returns a copy of EXPR, with all occurrences of OLD replaced by
     NEW.  This treats `lambda' forms specially with respect to the
     dummy argument variables, so that the effect is always to return
     EXPR evaluated at OLD = NEW.

 -- Function: multi-subst expr old new
     This is like `expr-subst', except that OLD and NEW are lists of
     expressions to be substituted simultaneously.  If one list is
     shorter than the other, trailing elements of the longer list are
     ignored.

 -- Function: expr-weight expr
     Returns the "weight" of EXPR, basically a count of the total
     number of objects and function calls that appear in EXPR.  For
     "primitive" objects, this will be one.

 -- Function: expr-height expr
     Returns the "height" of EXPR, which is the deepest level to which
     function calls are nested.  (Note that `A + B' counts as a
     function call.)  For primitive objects, this returns zero.

 -- Function: polynomial-p expr var
     Check if EXPR is a polynomial in variable (or sub-expression) VAR.
     If so, return the degree of the polynomial, that is, the highest
     power of VAR that appears in EXPR.  For example, for `(x^2 + 3)^3
     + 4' this would return 6.  This function returns `nil' unless
     EXPR, when expanded out by `a x' (`calc-expand'), would consist of
     a sum of terms in which VAR appears only raised to nonnegative
     integer powers.  Note that if VAR does not occur in EXPR, then
     EXPR is considered a polynomial of degree 0.

 -- Function: is-polynomial expr var degree loose
     Check if EXPR is a polynomial in variable or sub-expression VAR,
     and, if so, return a list representation of the polynomial where
     the elements of the list are coefficients of successive powers of
     VAR: `A + B x + C x^3' would produce the list `(A B 0 C)', and `(x
     + 1)^2' would produce the list `(1 2 1)'.  The highest element of
     the list will be non-zero, with the special exception that if EXPR
     is the constant zero, the returned value will be `(0)'.  Return
     `nil' if EXPR is not a polynomial in VAR.  If DEGREE is specified,
     this will not consider polynomials of degree higher than that
     value.  This is a good precaution because otherwise an input of
     `(x+1)^1000' will cause a huge coefficient list to be built.  If
     LOOSE is non-`nil', then a looser definition of a polynomial is
     used in which coefficients are no longer required not to depend on
     VAR, but are only required not to take the form of polynomials
     themselves.  For example, `sin(x) x^2 + cos(x)' is a loose
     polynomial with coefficients `((calcFunc-cos x) 0 (calcFunc-sin
     x))'.  The result will never be `nil' in loose mode, since any
     expression can be interpreted as a "constant" loose polynomial.

 -- Function: polynomial-base expr pred
     Check if EXPR is a polynomial in any variable that occurs in it;
     if so, return that variable.  (If EXPR is a multivariate
     polynomial, this chooses one variable arbitrarily.)  If PRED is
     specified, it should be a Lisp function which is called as `(PRED
     SUBEXPR)', and which should return true if `mpb-top-expr' (a
     global name for the original EXPR) is a suitable polynomial in
     SUBEXPR.  The default predicate uses `(polynomial-p mpb-top-expr
     SUBEXPR)'; you can use PRED to specify additional conditions.  Or,
     you could have PRED build up a list of every suitable SUBEXPR that
     is found.

 -- Function: poly-simplify poly
     Simplify polynomial coefficient list POLY by (destructively)
     clipping off trailing zeros.

 -- Function: poly-mix a ac b bc
     Mix two polynomial lists A and B (in the form returned by
     `is-polynomial') in a linear combination with coefficient
     expressions AC and BC.  The result is a (not necessarily
     simplified) polynomial list representing `AC A + BC B'.

 -- Function: poly-mul a b
     Multiply two polynomial coefficient lists A and B.  The result
     will be in simplified form if the inputs were simplified.

 -- Function: build-polynomial-expr poly var
     Construct a Calc formula which represents the polynomial
     coefficient list POLY applied to variable VAR.  The `a c'
     (`calc-collect') command uses `is-polynomial' to turn an
     expression into a coefficient list, then `build-polynomial-expr'
     to turn the list back into an expression in regular form.

 -- Function: check-unit-name var
     Check if VAR is a variable which can be interpreted as a unit
     name.  If so, return the units table entry for that unit.  This
     will be a list whose first element is the unit name (not counting
     prefix characters) as a symbol and whose second element is the
     Calc expression which defines the unit.  (Refer to the Calc sources
     for details on the remaining elements of this list.)  If VAR is
     not a variable or is not a unit name, return `nil'.

 -- Function: units-in-expr-p expr sub-exprs
     Return true if EXPR contains any variables which can be
     interpreted as units.  If SUB-EXPRS is `t', the entire expression
     is searched.  If SUB-EXPRS is `nil', this checks whether EXPR is
     directly a units expression.

 -- Function: single-units-in-expr-p expr
     Check whether EXPR contains exactly one units variable.  If so,
     return the units table entry for the variable.  If EXPR does not
     contain any units, return `nil'.  If EXPR contains two or more
     units, return the symbol `wrong'.

 -- Function: to-standard-units expr which
     Convert units expression EXPR to base units.  If WHICH is `nil',
     use Calc's native base units.  Otherwise, WHICH can specify a
     units system, which is a list of two-element lists, where the
     first element is a Calc base symbol name and the second is an
     expression to substitute for it.

 -- Function: remove-units expr
     Return a copy of EXPR with all units variables replaced by ones.
     This expression is generally normalized before use.

 -- Function: extract-units expr
     Return a copy of EXPR with everything but units variables replaced
     by ones.


File: calc,  Node: Formatting Lisp Functions,  Next: Hooks,  Prev: Symbolic Lisp Functions,  Up: Internals

19.5.7.8 I/O and Formatting Functions
.....................................

The functions described here are responsible for parsing and formatting
Calc numbers and formulas.

 -- Function: calc-eval str sep arg1 arg2 ...
     This is the simplest interface to the Calculator from another Lisp
     program.  *Note Calling Calc from Your Programs::.

 -- Function: read-number str
     If string STR contains a valid Calc number, either integer,
     fraction, float, or HMS form, this function parses and returns that
     number.  Otherwise, it returns `nil'.

 -- Function: read-expr str
     Read an algebraic expression from string STR.  If STR does not
     have the form of a valid expression, return a list of the form
     `(error POS MSG)' where POS is an integer index into STR of the
     general location of the error, and MSG is a string describing the
     problem.

 -- Function: read-exprs str
     Read a list of expressions separated by commas, and return it as a
     Lisp list.  If an error occurs in any expressions, an error list as
     shown above is returned instead.

 -- Function: calc-do-alg-entry initial prompt no-norm
     Read an algebraic formula or formulas using the minibuffer.  All
     conventions of regular algebraic entry are observed.  The return
     value is a list of Calc formulas; there will be more than one if
     the user entered a list of values separated by commas.  The result
     is `nil' if the user presses Return with a blank line.  If INITIAL
     is given, it is a string which the minibuffer will initially
     contain.  If PROMPT is given, it is the prompt string to use; the
     default is "Algebraic:".  If NO-NORM is `t', the formulas will be
     returned exactly as parsed; otherwise, they will be passed through
     `calc-normalize' first.

     To support the use of `$' characters in the algebraic entry, use
     `let' to bind `calc-dollar-values' to a list of the values to be
     substituted for `$', `$$', and so on, and bind `calc-dollar-used'
     to 0.  Upon return, `calc-dollar-used' will have been changed to
     the highest number of consecutive `$'s that actually appeared in
     the input.

 -- Function: format-number a
     Convert the real or complex number or HMS form A to string form.

 -- Function: format-flat-expr a prec
     Convert the arbitrary Calc number or formula A to string form, in
     the style used by the trail buffer and the `calc-edit' command.
     This is a simple format designed mostly to guarantee the string is
     of a form that can be re-parsed by `read-expr'.  Most formatting
     modes, such as digit grouping, complex number format, and point
     character, are ignored to ensure the result will be re-readable.
     The PREC parameter is normally 0; if you pass a large integer like
     1000 instead, the expression will be surrounded by parentheses
     unless it is a plain number or variable name.

 -- Function: format-nice-expr a width
     This is like `format-flat-expr' (with PREC equal to 0), except
     that newlines will be inserted to keep lines down to the specified
     WIDTH, and vectors that look like matrices or rewrite rules are
     written in a pseudo-matrix format.  The `calc-edit' command uses
     this when only one stack entry is being edited.

 -- Function: format-value a width
     Convert the Calc number or formula A to string form, using the
     format seen in the stack buffer.  Beware the string returned may
     not be re-readable by `read-expr', for example, because of digit
     grouping.  Multi-line objects like matrices produce strings that
     contain newline characters to separate the lines.  The W
     parameter, if given, is the target window size for which to format
     the expressions.  If W is omitted, the width of the Calculator
     window is used.

 -- Function: compose-expr a prec
     Format the Calc number or formula A according to the current
     language mode, returning a "composition."  To learn about the
     structure of compositions, see the comments in the Calc source
     code.  You can specify the format of a given type of function call
     by putting a `math-compose-LANG' property on the function's symbol,
     whose value is a Lisp function that takes A and PREC as arguments
     and returns a composition.  Here LANG is a language mode name, one
     of `normal', `big', `c', `pascal', `fortran', `tex', `eqn',
     `math', or `maple'.  In Big mode, Calc actually tries
     `math-compose-big' first, then tries `math-compose-normal'.  If
     this property does not exist, or if the function returns `nil',
     the function is written in the normal function-call notation for
     that language.

 -- Function: composition-to-string c w
     Convert a composition structure returned by `compose-expr' into a
     string.  Multi-line compositions convert to strings containing
     newline characters.  The target window size is given by W.  The
     `format-value' function basically calls `compose-expr' followed by
     `composition-to-string'.

 -- Function: comp-width c
     Compute the width in characters of composition C.

 -- Function: comp-height c
     Compute the height in lines of composition C.

 -- Function: comp-ascent c
     Compute the portion of the height of composition C which is on or
     above the baseline.  For a one-line composition, this will be one.

 -- Function: comp-descent c
     Compute the portion of the height of composition C which is below
     the baseline.  For a one-line composition, this will be zero.

 -- Function: comp-first-char c
     If composition C is a "flat" composition, return the first
     (leftmost) character of the composition as an integer.  Otherwise,
     return `nil'.

 -- Function: comp-last-char c
     If composition C is a "flat" composition, return the last
     (rightmost) character, otherwise return `nil'.


File: calc,  Node: Hooks,  Prev: Formatting Lisp Functions,  Up: Internals

19.5.7.9 Hooks
..............

Hooks are variables which contain Lisp functions (or lists of functions)
which are called at various times.  Calc defines a number of hooks that
help you to customize it in various ways.  Calc uses the Lisp function
`run-hooks' to invoke the hooks shown below.  Several other
customization-related variables are also described here.

 -- Variable: calc-load-hook
     This hook is called at the end of `calc.el', after the file has
     been loaded, before any functions in it have been called, but after
     `calc-mode-map' and similar variables have been set up.

 -- Variable: calc-ext-load-hook
     This hook is called at the end of `calc-ext.el'.

 -- Variable: calc-start-hook
     This hook is called as the last step in a `M-x calc' command.  At
     this point, the Calc buffer has been created and initialized if
     necessary, the Calc window and trail window have been created, and
     the "Welcome to Calc" message has been displayed.

 -- Variable: calc-mode-hook
     This hook is called when the Calc buffer is being created.  Usually
     this will only happen once per Emacs session.  The hook is called
     after Emacs has switched to the new buffer, the mode-settings file
     has been read if necessary, and all other buffer-local variables
     have been set up.  After this hook returns, Calc will perform a
     `calc-refresh' operation, set up the mode line display, then
     evaluate any deferred `calc-define' properties that have not been
     evaluated yet.

 -- Variable: calc-trail-mode-hook
     This hook is called when the Calc Trail buffer is being created.
     It is called as the very last step of setting up the Trail buffer.
     Like `calc-mode-hook', this will normally happen only once per
     Emacs session.

 -- Variable: calc-end-hook
     This hook is called by `calc-quit', generally because the user
     presses `q' or `C-x * c' while in Calc.  The Calc buffer will be
     the current buffer.  The hook is called as the very first step,
     before the Calc window is destroyed.

 -- Variable: calc-window-hook
     If this hook is non-`nil', it is called to create the Calc window.
     Upon return, this new Calc window should be the current window.
     (The Calc buffer will already be the current buffer when the hook
     is called.)  If the hook is not defined, Calc will generally use
     `split-window', `set-window-buffer', and `select-window' to create
     the Calc window.

 -- Variable: calc-trail-window-hook
     If this hook is non-`nil', it is called to create the Calc Trail
     window.  The variable `calc-trail-buffer' will contain the buffer
     which the window should use.  Unlike `calc-window-hook', this hook
     must _not_ switch into the new window.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-mode-hook
     This hook is called the first time that Embedded mode is entered.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-new-buffer-hook
     This hook is called each time that Embedded mode is entered in a
     new buffer.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-new-formula-hook
     This hook is called each time that Embedded mode is enabled for a
     new formula.

 -- Variable: calc-edit-mode-hook
     This hook is called by `calc-edit' (and the other "edit" commands)
     when the temporary editing buffer is being created.  The buffer
     will have been selected and set up to be in `calc-edit-mode', but
     will not yet have been filled with text.  (In fact it may still
     have leftover text from a previous `calc-edit' command.)

 -- Variable: calc-mode-save-hook
     This hook is called by the `calc-save-modes' command, after Calc's
     own mode features have been inserted into the Calc init file and
     just before the "End of mode settings" message is inserted.

 -- Variable: calc-reset-hook
     This hook is called after `C-x * 0' (`calc-reset') has reset all
     modes.  The Calc buffer will be the current buffer.

 -- Variable: calc-other-modes
     This variable contains a list of strings.  The strings are
     concatenated at the end of the modes portion of the Calc mode line
     (after standard modes such as "Deg", "Inv" and "Hyp").  Each
     string should be a short, single word followed by a space.  The
     variable is `nil' by default.

 -- Variable: calc-mode-map
     This is the keymap that is used by Calc mode.  The best time to
     adjust it is probably in a `calc-mode-hook'.  If the Calc
     extensions package (`calc-ext.el') has not yet been loaded, many
     of these keys will be bound to `calc-missing-key', which is a
     command that loads the extensions package and "retypes" the key.
     If your `calc-mode-hook' rebinds one of these keys, it will
     probably be overridden when the extensions are loaded.

 -- Variable: calc-digit-map
     This is the keymap that is used during numeric entry.  Numeric
     entry uses the minibuffer, but this map binds every non-numeric
     key to `calcDigit-nondigit' which generally calls
     `exit-minibuffer' and "retypes" the key.

 -- Variable: calc-alg-ent-map
     This is the keymap that is used during algebraic entry.  This is
     mostly a copy of `minibuffer-local-map'.

 -- Variable: calc-store-var-map
     This is the keymap that is used during entry of variable names for
     commands like `calc-store' and `calc-recall'.  This is mostly a
     copy of `minibuffer-local-completion-map'.

 -- Variable: calc-edit-mode-map
     This is the (sparse) keymap used by `calc-edit' and other
     temporary editing commands.  It binds <RET>, <LFD>, and `C-c C-c'
     to `calc-edit-finish'.

 -- Variable: calc-mode-var-list
     This is a list of variables which are saved by `calc-save-modes'.
     Each entry is a list of two items, the variable (as a Lisp symbol)
     and its default value.  When modes are being saved, each variable
     is compared with its default value (using `equal') and any
     non-default variables are written out.

 -- Variable: calc-local-var-list
     This is a list of variables which should be buffer-local to the
     Calc buffer.  Each entry is a variable name (as a Lisp symbol).
     These variables also have their default values manipulated by the
     `calc' and `calc-quit' commands; *note Multiple Calculators::.
     Since `calc-mode-hook' is called after this list has been used the
     first time, your hook should add a variable to the list and also
     call `make-local-variable' itself.


File: calc,  Node: Copying,  Next: GNU Free Documentation License,  Prev: Programming,  Up: Top

Appendix A GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
*************************************

                         Version 2, June 1991

     Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble
========

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom
to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public License is
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

   When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in
new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

   To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

   For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

   We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

   Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

   Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

   The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a
     notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
     under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program",
     below, refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on
     the Program" means either the Program or any derivative work under
     copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Program or a
     portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
     translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
     included without limitation in the term "modification".)  Each
     licensee is addressed as "you".

     Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are
     not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act
     of running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the
     Program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on
     the Program (independent of having been made by running the
     Program).  Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
     source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
     conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
     copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
     notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
     warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of
     this License along with the Program.

     You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
     and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange
     for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
     of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
     distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
     above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

       a. You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

       b. You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that
          in whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program
          or any part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge
          to all third parties under the terms of this License.

       c. If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
          when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
          interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display
          an announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and
          a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you
          provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the
          program under these conditions, and telling the user how to
          view a copy of this License.  (Exception: if the Program
          itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
          announcement, your work based on the Program is not required
          to print an announcement.)

     These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
     identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the
     Program, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate
     works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not
     apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
     works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a
     whole which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of
     the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions
     for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each
     and every part regardless of who wrote it.

     Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or
     contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the
     intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of
     derivative or collective works based on the Program.

     In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the
     Program with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on
     a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
     other work under the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
     under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms
     of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the
     following:

       a. Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
          source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
          Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for
          software interchange; or,

       b. Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
          years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
          cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
          machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
          distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
          medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

       c. Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
          to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
          allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
          received the program in object code or executable form with
          such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

     The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
     making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete
     source code means all the source code for all modules it contains,
     plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts
     used to control compilation and installation of the executable.
     However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need
     not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
     source or binary form) with the major components (compiler,
     kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable
     runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

     If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
     access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
     access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
     distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
     compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
     except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
     otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
     License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
     from you under this License will not have their licenses
     terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
     signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify
     or distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions
     are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.
     Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any work
     based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this
     License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
     distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
     Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
     original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program
     subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any
     further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights
     granted herein.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance
     by third parties to this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
     infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent
     issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order,
     agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this
     License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
     License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously
     your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
     obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the
     Program at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit
     royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those who
     receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only
     way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
     entirely from distribution of the Program.

     If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable
     under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is
     intended to apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply
     in other circumstances.

     It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
     patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of
     any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting
     the integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
     implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
     generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
     through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
     system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is
     willing to distribute software through any other system and a
     licensee cannot impose that choice.

     This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed
     to be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
     certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces,
     the original copyright holder who places the Program under this
     License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation
     excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only
     in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this
     License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of
     this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
     versions of the General Public License from time to time.  Such
     new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but
     may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

     Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
     Program specifies a version number of this License which applies
     to it and "any later version", you have the option of following
     the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later
     version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Program
     does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
     any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

 10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
     programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the
     author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted
     by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software
     Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision
     will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
     all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
     and reuse of software generally.

                                NO WARRANTY
 11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
     WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
     LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
     HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT
     WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
     NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
     FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
     QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
     PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
     SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

 12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
     WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY
     MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE
     LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
     INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
     INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
     DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU
     OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY
     OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
=======================================================

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these
terms.

   To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     ONE LINE TO GIVE THE PROGRAM'S NAME AND A BRIEF IDEA OF WHAT IT DOES.
     Copyright (C) YYYY  NAME OF AUTHOR

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
     (at your option) any later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
     GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
     Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

   Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper
mail.

   If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) YYYY NAME OF AUTHOR
     Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
     This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
     under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

   The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the
appropriate parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the
commands you use may be called something other than `show w' and `show
c'; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your
program.

   You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or
your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program,
if necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
     `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

     SIGNATURE OF TY COON, 1 April 1989
     Ty Coon, President of Vice

   This General Public License does not permit incorporating your
program into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine
library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary
applications with the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the
GNU Lesser General Public License instead of this License.


File: calc,  Node: GNU Free Documentation License,  Next: Customizing Calc,  Prev: Copying,  Up: Top

Appendix B GNU Free Documentation License
*****************************************

                      Version 1.2, November 2002

     Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  0. PREAMBLE

     The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
     functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
     assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
     with or without modifying it, either commercially or
     noncommercially.  Secondarily, this License preserves for the
     author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not
     being considered responsible for modifications made by others.

     This License is a kind of "copyleft," which means that derivative
     works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.
     It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
     license designed for free software.

     We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for
     free software, because free software needs free documentation: a
     free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms
     that the software does.  But this License is not limited to
     software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
     of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book.
     We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is
     instruction or reference.


  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

     This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium,
     that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it
     can be distributed under the terms of this License.  Such a notice
     grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration,
     to use that work under the conditions stated herein.  The
     "Document," below, refers to any such manual or work.  Any member
     of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you."  You
     accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a
     way requiring permission under copyright law.

     A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
     Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
     modifications and/or translated into another language.

     A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter
     section of the Document that deals exclusively with the
     relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the
     Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains
     nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject.
     (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
     Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.)  The
     relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the
     subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial,
     philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

     The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose
     titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in
     the notice that says that the Document is released under this
     License.  If a section does not fit the above definition of
     Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.
     The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections.  If the Document
     does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.

     The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are
     listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice
     that says that the Document is released under this License.  A
     Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may
     be at most 25 words.

     A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
     represented in a format whose specification is available to the
     general public, that is suitable for revising the document
     straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images
     composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some
     widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to
     text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of
     formats suitable for input to text formatters.  A copy made in an
     otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of
     markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent
     modification by readers is not Transparent.  An image format is
     not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text.  A
     copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque."

     Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
     ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format,
     SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and
     standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for
     human modification.  Examples of transparent image formats include
     PNG, XCF and JPG.  Opaque formats include proprietary formats that
     can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML
     or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally
     available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF
     produced by some word processors for output purposes only.

     The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
     plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the
     material this License requires to appear in the title page.  For
     works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title
     Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the
     work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

     A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document
     whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses
     following text that translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ
     stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as
     "Acknowledgements," "Dedications," "Endorsements," or "History.")
     To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
     Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according
     to this definition.

     The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice
     which states that this License applies to the Document.  These
     Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in
     this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
     implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and
     has no effect on the meaning of this License.

  2. VERBATIM COPYING

     You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
     commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
     copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License
     applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you
     add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You
     may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
     or further copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However,
     you may accept compensation in exchange for copies.  If you
     distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow
     the conditions in section 3.

     You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above,
     and you may publicly display copies.

  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

     If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly
     have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and
     the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must
     enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all
     these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and
     Back-Cover Texts on the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly
     and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies.  The
     front cover must present the full title with all words of the
     title equally prominent and visible.  You may add other material
     on the covers in addition.  Copying with changes limited to the
     covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and
     satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in
     other respects.

     If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
     legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
     reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto
     adjacent pages.

     If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document
     numbering more than 100, you must either include a
     machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or
     state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from
     which the general network-using public has access to download
     using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent
     copy of the Document, free of added material.  If you use the
     latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you
     begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that
     this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated
     location until at least one year after the last time you
     distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or
     retailers) of that edition to the public.

     It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of
     the Document well before redistributing any large number of
     copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated
     version of the Document.

  4. MODIFICATIONS

     You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document
     under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you
     release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with
     the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus
     licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to
     whoever possesses a copy of it.  In addition, you must do these
     things in the Modified Version:

     A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title
     distinct    from that of the Document, and from those of previous
     versions    (which should, if there were any, be listed in the
     History section    of the Document).  You may use the same title
     as a previous version    if the original publisher of that version
     gives permission.
     B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or
     entities    responsible for authorship of the modifications in the
     Modified    Version, together with at least five of the principal
     authors of the    Document (all of its principal authors, if it
     has fewer than five),    unless they release you from this
     requirement.
     C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
     Modified Version, as the publisher.
     D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
     E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
     adjacent to the other copyright notices.
     F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license
     notice    giving the public permission to use the Modified Version
     under the    terms of this License, in the form shown in the
     Addendum below.
     G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant
     Sections    and required Cover Texts given in the Document's
     license notice.
     H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
     I. Preserve the section Entitled "History," Preserve its Title,
     and add    to it an item stating at least the title, year, new
     authors, and    publisher of the Modified Version as given on the
     Title Page.  If    there is no section Entitled "History" in the
     Document, create one    stating the title, year, authors, and
     publisher of the Document as    given on its Title Page, then add
     an item describing the Modified    Version as stated in the
     previous sentence.
     J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
       public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and
     likewise    the network locations given in the Document for
     previous versions    it was based on.  These may be placed in the
     "History" section.     You may omit a network location for a work
     that was published at    least four years before the Document
     itself, or if the original    publisher of the version it refers
     to gives permission.
     K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications,"
     Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all
       the substance and tone of each of the contributor
     acknowledgements    and/or dedications given therein.
     L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
     unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
     or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
     M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements."  Such a section
     may not be included in the Modified Version.
     N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled
     "Endorsements"    or to conflict in title with any Invariant
     Section.
     O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

     If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
     appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no
     material copied from the Document, you may at your option
     designate some or all of these sections as invariant.  To do this,
     add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
     Version's license notice.  These titles must be distinct from any
     other section titles.

     You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements," provided it contains
     nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
     parties-for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
     been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition
     of a standard.

     You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text,
     and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end
     of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one
     passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be
     added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the
     Document already includes a cover text for the same cover,
     previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity
     you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may
     replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous
     publisher that added the old one.

     The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this
     License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to
     assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.

  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

     You may combine the Document with other documents released under
     this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for
     modified versions, provided that you include in the combination
     all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents,
     unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
     combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all
     their Warranty Disclaimers.

     The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
     multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
     copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name
     but different contents, make the title of each such section unique
     by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the
     original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
     unique number.  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in
     the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the
     combined work.

     In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled
     "History" in the various original documents, forming one section
     Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled
     "Acknowledgements," and any sections Entitled "Dedications."  You
     must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements."

  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

     You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other
     documents released under this License, and replace the individual
     copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy
     that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the
     rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the
     documents in all other respects.

     You may extract a single document from such a collection, and
     distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert
     a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow
     this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of
     that document.

  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

     A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other
     separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of
     a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the
     copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the
     legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual
     works permit.  When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
     License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which
     are not themselves derivative works of the Document.

     If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
     copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half
     of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed
     on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
     electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic
     form.  Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
     the whole aggregate.

  8. TRANSLATION

     Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
     distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section
     4.  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
     permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
     translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
     original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
     translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
     Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also
     include the original English version of this License and the
     original versions of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a
     disagreement between the translation and the original version of
     this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
     prevail.

     If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements,"
     "Dedications," or "History," the requirement (section 4) to
     Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the
     actual title.

  9. TERMINATION

     You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document
     except as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other
     attempt to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
     License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
     from you under this License will not have their licenses
     terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

     The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of
     the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
     versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
     differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
     http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

     Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version
     number.  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered
     version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you
     have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
     that specified version or of any later version that has been
     published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.  If
     the Document does not specify a version number of this License,
     you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the
     Free Software Foundation.


ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
====================================================

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and license
notices just after the title page:

     Copyright (C)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
     Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
     under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
     or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
     with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
     A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
     Free Documentation License.''

   If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover
Texts, replace the "with...Texts." line with this:

     with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
     Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being
     LIST.

   If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.

   If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to
permit their use in free software.


File: calc,  Node: Customizing Calc,  Next: Reporting Bugs,  Prev: GNU Free Documentation License,  Up: Top

Appendix C Customizing Calc
***************************

The usual prefix for Calc is the key sequence `C-x *'.  If you wish to
use a different prefix, you can put

     (global-set-key "NEWPREFIX" 'calc-dispatch)

in your .emacs file.  (*Note Customizing Key Bindings: (emacs)Key
Bindings, for more information on binding keys.)  A convenient way to
start Calc is with `C-x * *'; to make it equally convenient for users
who use a different prefix, the prefix can be followed by  `=', `&',
`#', `\', `/', `+' or `-' as well as `*' to start Calc, and so in many
cases the last character of the prefix can simply be typed twice.

   Calc is controlled by many variables, most of which can be reset
from within Calc.  Some variables are less involved with actual
calculation, and can be set outside of Calc using Emacs's customization
facilities.  These variables are listed below.  Typing `M-x
customize-variable RET VARIABLE-NAME RET' will bring up a buffer in
which the variable's value can be redefined.  Typing `M-x
customize-group RET calc RET' will bring up a buffer which contains all
of Calc's customizable variables.  (These variables can also be reset
by putting the appropriate lines in your .emacs file; *Note Init File:
(emacs)Init File.)

   Some of the customizable variables are regular expressions.  A
regular expression is basically a pattern that Calc can search for.
See *Note Regular Expression Search: (emacs)Regexp Search.  to see how
regular expressions work.

 -- Variable: calc-settings-file
     The variable `calc-settings-file' holds the file name in which
     commands like `m m' and `Z P' store "permanent" definitions.  If
     `calc-settings-file' is not your user init file (typically
     `~/.emacs') and if the variable `calc-loaded-settings-file' is
     `nil', then Calc will automatically load your settings file (if it
     exists) the first time Calc is invoked.

     The default value for this variable is `"~/.calc.el"'.

 -- Variable: calc-gnuplot-name
     See *Note Graphics::.
     The variable `calc-gnuplot-name' should be the name of the GNUPLOT
     program (a string).  If you have GNUPLOT installed on your system
     but Calc is unable to find it, you may need to set this variable.
     (*note Customizing Calc::) You may also need to set some Lisp
     variables to show Calc how to run GNUPLOT on your system, see
     *Note Graphical Devices: Devices .  The default value of
     `calc-gnuplot-name' is `"gnuplot"'.

 -- Variable: calc-gnuplot-plot-command
 -- Variable: calc-gnuplot-print-command
     See *Note Graphical Devices: Devices.
     The variables `calc-gnuplot-plot-command' and
     `calc-gnuplot-print-command' represent system commands to display
     and print the output of GNUPLOT, respectively.  These may be `nil'
     if no command is necessary, or strings which can include `%s' to
     signify the name of the file to be displayed or printed.  Or,
     these variables may contain Lisp expressions which are evaluated
     to display or print the output.

     The default value of `calc-gnuplot-plot-command' is `nil', and the
     default value of `calc-gnuplot-print-command' is `"lp %s"'.

 -- Variable: calc-language-alist
     See *Note Basic Embedded Mode::.
     The variable `calc-language-alist' controls the languages that
     Calc will associate with major modes.  When Calc embedded mode is
     enabled, it will try to use the current major mode to determine
     what language should be used.  (This can be overridden using
     Calc's mode changing commands, *Note Mode Settings in Embedded
     Mode::.)  The variable `calc-language-alist' consists of a list of
     pairs of the form  `(MAJOR-MODE . LANGUAGE)'; for example,
     `(latex-mode . latex)' is one such pair.  If Calc embedded is
     activated in a buffer whose major mode is MAJOR-MODE, it will set
     itself to use the language LANGUAGE.

     The default value of `calc-language-alist' is
             ((latex-mode . latex)
              (tex-mode   . tex)
              (plain-tex-mode . tex)
              (context-mode . tex)
              (nroff-mode . eqn)
              (pascal-mode . pascal)
              (c-mode . c)
              (c++-mode . c)
              (fortran-mode . fortran)
              (f90-mode . fortran))

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-announce-formula
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-announce-formula-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variable `calc-embedded-announce-formula' helps determine what
     formulas `C-x * a' will activate in a buffer.  It is a regular
     expression, and when activating embedded formulas with `C-x * a',
     it will tell Calc that what follows is a formula to be activated.
     (Calc also uses other patterns to find formulas, such as `=>' and
     `:='.)

     The default pattern is `"%Embed\n\\(% .*\n\\)*"', which checks for
     `%Embed' followed by any number of lines beginning with `%' and a
     space.

     The variable `calc-embedded-announce-formula-alist' is used to set
     `calc-embedded-announce-formula' to different regular expressions
     depending on the major mode of the editing buffer.  It consists of
     a list of pairs of the form `(MAJOR-MODE .  REGEXP)', and its
     default value is
             ((c++-mode     . "//Embed\n\\(// .*\n\\)*")
              (c-mode       . "/\\*Embed\\*/\n\\(/\\* .*\\*/\n\\)*")
              (f90-mode     . "!Embed\n\\(! .*\n\\)*")
              (fortran-mode . "C Embed\n\\(C .*\n\\)*")
              (html-helper-mode . "<!-- Embed -->\n\\(<!-- .* -->\n\\)*")
              (html-mode    . "<!-- Embed -->\n\\(<!-- .* -->\n\\)*")
              (nroff-mode   . "\\\\\"Embed\n\\(\\\\\" .*\n\\)*")
              (pascal-mode  . "{Embed}\n\\({.*}\n\\)*")
              (sgml-mode    . "<!-- Embed -->\n\\(<!-- .* -->\n\\)*")
              (xml-mode     . "<!-- Embed -->\n\\(<!-- .* -->\n\\)*")
              (texinfo-mode . "@c Embed\n\\(@c .*\n\\)*"))
     Any major modes added to `calc-embedded-announce-formula-alist'
     should also be added to `calc-embedded-open-close-plain-alist' and
     `calc-embedded-open-close-mode-alist'.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-formula
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-close-formula
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-close-formula-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variables `calc-embedded-open-formula' and
     `calc-embedded-open-formula' control the region that Calc will
     activate as a formula when Embedded mode is entered with `C-x * e'.
     They are regular expressions; Calc normally scans backward and
     forward in the buffer for the nearest text matching these regular
     expressions to be the "formula delimiters".

     The simplest delimiters are blank lines.  Other delimiters that
     Embedded mode understands by default are:
       1. The TeX and LaTeX math delimiters `$ $', `$$ $$', `\[ \]',
          and `\( \)';

       2. Lines beginning with `\begin' and `\end' (except matrix
          delimiters);

       3. Lines beginning with `@' (Texinfo delimiters).

       4. Lines beginning with `.EQ' and `.EN' ("eqn" delimiters);

       5. Lines containing a single `%' or `.\"' symbol and nothing
          else.

     The variable `calc-embedded-open-close-formula-alist' is used to
     set `calc-embedded-open-formula' and `calc-embedded-close-formula'
     to different regular expressions depending on the major mode of
     the editing buffer.  It consists of a list of lists of the form
     `(MAJOR-MODE  OPEN-FORMULA-REGEXP CLOSE-FORMULA-REGEXP)', and its
     default value is `nil'.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-word
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-close-word
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-close-word-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variables `calc-embedded-open-word' and
     `calc-embedded-close-word' control the region that Calc will
     activate when Embedded mode is entered with `C-x * w'.  They are
     regular expressions.

     The default values of `calc-embedded-open-word' and
     `calc-embedded-close-word' are `"^\\|[^-+0-9.eE]"' and
     `"$\\|[^-+0-9.eE]"' respectively.

     The variable `calc-embedded-open-close-word-alist' is used to set
     `calc-embedded-open-word' and `calc-embedded-close-word' to
     different regular expressions depending on the major mode of the
     editing buffer.  It consists of a list of lists of the form
     `(MAJOR-MODE  OPEN-WORD-REGEXP CLOSE-WORD-REGEXP)', and its
     default value is `nil'.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-plain
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-close-plain
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-close-plain-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variables `calc-embedded-open-plain' and
     `calc-embedded-open-plain' are used to delimit "plain" formulas.
     Note that these are actual strings, not regular expressions,
     because Calc must be able to write these string into a buffer as
     well as to recognize them.

     The default string for `calc-embedded-open-plain' is `"%%% "',
     note the trailing space.  The default string for
     `calc-embedded-close-plain' is `" %%%\n"', without the trailing
     newline here, the first line of a Big mode formula that followed
     might be shifted over with respect to the other lines.

     The variable `calc-embedded-open-close-plain-alist' is used to set
     `calc-embedded-open-plain' and `calc-embedded-close-plain' to
     different strings depending on the major mode of the editing
     buffer.  It consists of a list of lists of the form `(MAJOR-MODE
     OPEN-PLAIN-STRING CLOSE-PLAIN-STRING)', and its default value is
             ((c++-mode     "// %% "   " %%\n")
              (c-mode       "/* %% "   " %% */\n")
              (f90-mode     "! %% "    " %%\n")
              (fortran-mode "C %% "    " %%\n")
              (html-helper-mode "<!-- %% " " %% -->\n")
              (html-mode "<!-- %% " " %% -->\n")
              (nroff-mode   "\\\" %% " " %%\n")
              (pascal-mode  "{%% "    " %%}\n")
              (sgml-mode     "<!-- %% " " %% -->\n")
              (xml-mode     "<!-- %% " " %% -->\n")
              (texinfo-mode "@c %% "   " %%\n"))
     Any major modes added to `calc-embedded-open-close-plain-alist'
     should also be added to `calc-embedded-announce-formula-alist' and
     `calc-embedded-open-close-mode-alist'.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-new-formula
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-close-new-formula
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-close-new-formula-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variables `calc-embedded-open-new-formula' and
     `calc-embedded-close-new-formula' are strings which are inserted
     before and after a new formula when you type `C-x * f'.

     The default value of `calc-embedded-open-new-formula' is `"\n\n"'.
     If this string begins with a newline character and the `C-x * f'
     is typed at the beginning of a line, `C-x * f' will skip this
     first newline to avoid introducing unnecessary blank lines in the
     file.  The default value of `calc-embedded-close-new-formula' is
     also `"\n\n"'.  The final newline is omitted by `C-x * f' if typed
     at the end of a line.  (It follows that if `C-x * f' is typed on a
     blank line, both a leading opening newline and a trailing closing
     newline are omitted.)

     The variable `calc-embedded-open-close-new-formula-alist' is used
     to set `calc-embedded-open-new-formula' and
     `calc-embedded-close-new-formula' to different strings depending
     on the major mode of the editing buffer.  It consists of a list of
     lists of the form `(MAJOR-MODE  OPEN-NEW-FORMULA-STRING
     CLOSE-NEW-FORMULA-STRING)', and its default value is `nil'.

 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-mode
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-close-mode
 -- Variable: calc-embedded-open-close-mode-alist
     See *Note Customizing Embedded Mode::.
     The variables `calc-embedded-open-mode' and
     `calc-embedded-close-mode' are strings which Calc will place before
     and after any mode annotations that it inserts.  Calc never scans
     for these strings; Calc always looks for the annotation itself, so
     it is not necessary to add them to user-written annotations.

     The default value of `calc-embedded-open-mode' is `"% "' and the
     default value of `calc-embedded-close-mode' is `"\n"'.  If you
     change the value of `calc-embedded-close-mode', it is a good idea
     still to end with a newline so that mode annotations will appear on
     lines by themselves.

     The variable `calc-embedded-open-close-mode-alist' is used to set
     `calc-embedded-open-mode' and `calc-embedded-close-mode' to
     different strings expressions depending on the major mode of the
     editing buffer.  It consists of a list of lists of the form
     `(MAJOR-MODE  OPEN-MODE-STRING CLOSE-MODE-STRING)', and its
     default value is
             ((c++-mode     "// "   "\n")
              (c-mode       "/* "   " */\n")
              (f90-mode     "! "    "\n")
              (fortran-mode "C "    "\n")
              (html-helper-mode "<!-- " " -->\n")
              (html-mode    "<!-- " " -->\n")
              (nroff-mode   "\\\" " "\n")
              (pascal-mode  "{ "    " }\n")
              (sgml-mode    "<!-- " " -->\n")
              (xml-mode     "<!-- " " -->\n")
              (texinfo-mode "@c "   "\n"))
     Any major modes added to `calc-embedded-open-close-mode-alist'
     should also be added to `calc-embedded-announce-formula-alist' and
     `calc-embedded-open-close-plain-alist'.


File: calc,  Node: Reporting Bugs,  Next: Summary,  Prev: Customizing Calc,  Up: Top

Appendix D Reporting Bugs
*************************

If you find a bug in Calc, send e-mail to Jay Belanger,

     jay.p.belanger@gmail.com

There is an automatic command `M-x report-calc-bug' which helps you to
report bugs.  This command prompts you for a brief subject line, then
leaves you in a mail editing buffer.  Type `C-c C-c' to send your mail.
Make sure your subject line indicates that you are reporting a Calc
bug; this command sends mail to the maintainer's regular mailbox.

   If you have suggestions for additional features for Calc, please send
them.  Some have dared to suggest that Calc is already top-heavy with
features; this obviously cannot be the case, so if you have ideas, send
them right in.

   At the front of the source file, `calc.el', is a list of ideas for
future work.  If any enthusiastic souls wish to take it upon themselves
to work on these, please send a message (using `M-x report-calc-bug')
so any efforts can be coordinated.

   The latest version of Calc is available from Savannah, in the Emacs
CVS tree.  See `http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/emacs'.


File: calc,  Node: Summary,  Next: Key Index,  Prev: Reporting Bugs,  Up: Top

Appendix E Calc Summary
***********************

This section includes a complete list of Calc 2.1 keystroke commands.
Each line lists the stack entries used by the command (top-of-stack
last), the keystrokes themselves, the prompts asked by the command, and
the result of the command (also with top-of-stack last).  The result is
expressed using the equivalent algebraic function.  Commands which put
no results on the stack show the full `M-x' command name in that
position.  Numbers preceding the result or command name refer to notes
at the end.

   Algebraic functions and `M-x' commands that don't have corresponding
keystrokes are not listed in this summary.  *Note Command Index::.
*Note Function Index::.

            C-x * a                   33  calc-embedded-activate
            C-x * b                       calc-big-or-small
            C-x * c                       calc
            C-x * d                       calc-embedded-duplicate
            C-x * e                   34  calc-embedded
            C-x * f  formula              calc-embedded-new-formula
            C-x * g                   35  calc-grab-region
            C-x * i                       calc-info
            C-x * j                       calc-embedded-select
            C-x * k                       calc-keypad
            C-x * l                       calc-load-everything
            C-x * m                       read-kbd-macro
            C-x * n                    4  calc-embedded-next
            C-x * o                       calc-other-window
            C-x * p                    4  calc-embedded-previous
            C-x * q  formula              quick-calc
            C-x * r                   36  calc-grab-rectangle
            C-x * s                       calc-info-summary
            C-x * t                       calc-tutorial
            C-x * u                       calc-embedded-update-formula
            C-x * w                       calc-embedded-word
            C-x * x                       calc-quit
            C-x * y              1,28,49  calc-copy-to-buffer
            C-x * z                       calc-user-invocation
            C-x * :                   36  calc-grab-sum-down
            C-x * _                   36  calc-grab-sum-across
            C-x * `  editing          30  calc-embedded-edit
            C-x * 0  (zero)               calc-reset

             0-9   number               number
             .     number               0.number
             _     number               -number
             e     number               1e number
             #     number               current-radix#number
             P     (in number)          +/-
             M     (in number)          mod
             @ ' "   (in number)        HMS form
             h m s   (in number)        HMS form

             '     formula       37,46  formula
             $     formula       37,46  $formula
             "     string        37,46  string

    a b      +                       2  add(a,b)  a+b
    a b      -                       2  sub(a,b)  a-b
    a b      *                       2  mul(a,b)  a b, a*b
    a b      /                       2  div(a,b)  a/b
    a b      ^                       2  pow(a,b)  a^b
    a b    I ^                       2  nroot(a,b)  a^(1/b)
    a b      %                       2  mod(a,b)  a%b
    a b      \                       2  idiv(a,b)  a\b
    a b      :                       2  fdiv(a,b)
    a b      |                       2  vconcat(a,b)  a|b
    a b    I |                          vconcat(b,a)  b|a
    a b    H |                       2  append(a,b)
    a b  I H |                          append(b,a)
      a      &                       1  inv(a)  1/a
      a      !                       1  fact(a)  a!
      a      =                       1  evalv(a)
      a      M-%                        percent(a)  a%

  ... a      <RET>                     1  ... a a
  ... a      <SPC>                     1  ... a a
... a b      <TAB>                     3  ... b a
. a b c      M-<TAB>                   3  ... b c a
... a b      <LFD>                     1  ... a b a
  ... a      <DEL>                     1  ...
... a b      M-<DEL>                   1  ... b
             M-<RET>                   4  calc-last-args
      a      `     editing        1,30  calc-edit

  ... a      C-d                     1  ...
             C-k                    27  calc-kill
             C-w                    27  calc-kill-region
             C-y                        calc-yank
             C-_                     4  calc-undo
             M-k                    27  calc-copy-as-kill
             M-w                    27  calc-copy-region-as-kill

             [                          [...
[.. a b      ]                          [a,b]
             (                          (...
(.. a b      )                          (a,b)
             ,                          vector or rect complex
             ;                          matrix or polar complex
             ..                         interval

             ~                          calc-num-prefix
             <                       4  calc-scroll-left
             >                       4  calc-scroll-right
             {                       4  calc-scroll-down
             }                       4  calc-scroll-up
             ?                          calc-help

      a      n                       1  neg(a)  -a
             o                       4  calc-realign
             p     precision        31  calc-precision
             q                          calc-quit
             w                          calc-why
             x     command              M-x calc-command
      a      y                 1,28,49  calc-copy-to-buffer

      a      A                       1  abs(a)
    a b      B                       2  log(a,b)
    a b    I B                       2  alog(a,b)  b^a
      a      C                       1  cos(a)
      a    I C                       1  arccos(a)
      a    H C                       1  cosh(a)
      a  I H C                       1  arccosh(a)
             D                       4  calc-redo
      a      E                       1  exp(a)
      a    H E                       1  exp10(a)  10.^a
      a      F                    1,11  floor(a,d)
      a    I F                    1,11  ceil(a,d)
      a    H F                    1,11  ffloor(a,d)
      a  I H F                    1,11  fceil(a,d)
      a      G                       1  arg(a)
             H     command          32  Hyperbolic
             I     command          32  Inverse
      a      J                       1  conj(a)
             K     command          32  Keep-args
      a      L                       1  ln(a)
      a    H L                       1  log10(a)
             M                          calc-more-recursion-depth
           I M                          calc-less-recursion-depth
      a      N                       5  evalvn(a)
             P                          pi
           I P                          gamma
           H P                          e
         I H P                          phi
      a      Q                       1  sqrt(a)
      a    I Q                       1  sqr(a)  a^2
      a      R                    1,11  round(a,d)
      a    I R                    1,11  trunc(a,d)
      a    H R                    1,11  fround(a,d)
      a  I H R                    1,11  ftrunc(a,d)
      a      S                       1  sin(a)
      a    I S                       1  arcsin(a)
      a    H S                       1  sinh(a)
      a  I H S                       1  arcsinh(a)
      a      T                       1  tan(a)
      a    I T                       1  arctan(a)
      a    H T                       1  tanh(a)
      a  I H T                       1  arctanh(a)
             U                       4  calc-undo
             X                       4  calc-call-last-kbd-macro

    a b      a =                     2  eq(a,b)  a=b
    a b      a #                     2  neq(a,b)  a!=b
    a b      a <                     2  lt(a,b)  a<b
    a b      a >                     2  gt(a,b)  a>b
    a b      a [                     2  leq(a,b)  a<=b
    a b      a ]                     2  geq(a,b)  a>=b
    a b      a {                     2  in(a,b)
    a b      a &                  2,45  land(a,b)  a&&b
    a b      a |                  2,45  lor(a,b)  a||b
      a      a !                  1,45  lnot(a)  !a
  a b c      a :                    45  if(a,b,c)  a?b:c
      a      a .                     1  rmeq(a)
      a      a "                   7,8  calc-expand-formula

      a      a +   i, l, h        6,38  sum(a,i,l,h)
      a      a -   i, l, h        6,38  asum(a,i,l,h)
      a      a *   i, l, h        6,38  prod(a,i,l,h)
    a b      a _                     2  subscr(a,b)  a_b

    a b      a \                     2  pdiv(a,b)
    a b      a %                     2  prem(a,b)
    a b      a /                     2  pdivrem(a,b)  [q,r]
    a b    H a /                     2  pdivide(a,b)  q+r/b

      a      a a                     1  apart(a)
      a      a b   old, new         38  subst(a,old,new)
      a      a c   v                38  collect(a,v)
      a      a d   v              4,38  deriv(a,v)
      a    H a d   v              4,38  tderiv(a,v)
      a      a e                        esimplify(a)
      a      a f                     1  factor(a)
      a    H a f                     1  factors(a)
    a b      a g                     2  pgcd(a,b)
      a      a i   v                38  integ(a,v)
      a      a m   pats             38  match(a,pats)
      a    I a m   pats             38  matchnot(a,pats)
 data x      a p                    28  polint(data,x)
 data x    H a p                    28  ratint(data,x)
      a      a n                     1  nrat(a)
      a      a r   rules        4,8,38  rewrite(a,rules,n)
      a      a s                        simplify(a)
      a      a t   v, n          31,39  taylor(a,v,n)
      a      a v                   7,8  calc-alg-evaluate
      a      a x                   4,8  expand(a)

   data      a F   model, vars      48  fit(m,iv,pv,data)
   data    I a F   model, vars      48  xfit(m,iv,pv,data)
   data    H a F   model, vars      48  efit(m,iv,pv,data)
      a      a I   v, l, h          38  ninteg(a,v,l,h)
    a b      a M   op               22  mapeq(op,a,b)
    a b    I a M   op               22  mapeqr(op,a,b)
    a b    H a M   op               22  mapeqp(op,a,b)
    a g      a N   v                38  minimize(a,v,g)
    a g    H a N   v                38  wminimize(a,v,g)
      a      a P   v                38  roots(a,v)
    a g      a R   v                38  root(a,v,g)
    a g    H a R   v                38  wroot(a,v,g)
      a      a S   v                38  solve(a,v)
      a    I a S   v                38  finv(a,v)
      a    H a S   v                38  fsolve(a,v)
      a  I H a S   v                38  ffinv(a,v)
      a      a T   i, l, h        6,38  table(a,i,l,h)
    a g      a X   v                38  maximize(a,v,g)
    a g    H a X   v                38  wmaximize(a,v,g)

    a b      b a                     9  and(a,b,w)
      a      b c                     9  clip(a,w)
    a b      b d                     9  diff(a,b,w)
      a      b l                    10  lsh(a,n,w)
    a n    H b l                     9  lsh(a,n,w)
      a      b n                     9  not(a,w)
    a b      b o                     9  or(a,b,w)
      v      b p                     1  vpack(v)
      a      b r                    10  rsh(a,n,w)
    a n    H b r                     9  rsh(a,n,w)
      a      b t                    10  rot(a,n,w)
    a n    H b t                     9  rot(a,n,w)
      a      b u                     1  vunpack(a)
             b w   w              9,50  calc-word-size
    a b      b x                     9  xor(a,b,w)

c s l p      b D                        ddb(c,s,l,p)
  r n p      b F                        fv(r,n,p)
  r n p    I b F                        fvb(r,n,p)
  r n p    H b F                        fvl(r,n,p)
      v      b I                    19  irr(v)
      v    I b I                    19  irrb(v)
      a      b L                    10  ash(a,n,w)
    a n    H b L                     9  ash(a,n,w)
  r n a      b M                        pmt(r,n,a)
  r n a    I b M                        pmtb(r,n,a)
  r n a    H b M                        pmtl(r,n,a)
    r v      b N                    19  npv(r,v)
    r v    I b N                    19  npvb(r,v)
  r n p      b P                        pv(r,n,p)
  r n p    I b P                        pvb(r,n,p)
  r n p    H b P                        pvl(r,n,p)
      a      b R                    10  rash(a,n,w)
    a n    H b R                     9  rash(a,n,w)
  c s l      b S                        sln(c,s,l)
  n p a      b T                        rate(n,p,a)
  n p a    I b T                        rateb(n,p,a)
  n p a    H b T                        ratel(n,p,a)
c s l p      b Y                        syd(c,s,l,p)

  r p a      b #                        nper(r,p,a)
  r p a    I b #                        nperb(r,p,a)
  r p a    H b #                        nperl(r,p,a)
    a b      b %                        relch(a,b)

      a      c c                     5  pclean(a,p)
      a      c 0-9                      pclean(a,p)
      a    H c c                     5  clean(a,p)
      a    H c 0-9                      clean(a,p)
      a      c d                     1  deg(a)
      a      c f                     1  pfloat(a)
      a    H c f                     1  float(a)
      a      c h                     1  hms(a)
      a      c p                        polar(a)
      a    I c p                        rect(a)
      a      c r                     1  rad(a)

      a      c F                     5  pfrac(a,p)
      a    H c F                     5  frac(a,p)

      a      c %                        percent(a*100)

             d .   char             50  calc-point-char
             d ,   char             50  calc-group-char
             d <                 13,50  calc-left-justify
             d =                 13,50  calc-center-justify
             d >                 13,50  calc-right-justify
             d {   label            50  calc-left-label
             d }   label            50  calc-right-label
             d [                     4  calc-truncate-up
             d ]                     4  calc-truncate-down
             d "                 12,50  calc-display-strings
             d <SPC>                      calc-refresh
             d <RET>                   1  calc-refresh-top

             d 0                    50  calc-decimal-radix
             d 2                    50  calc-binary-radix
             d 6                    50  calc-hex-radix
             d 8                    50  calc-octal-radix

             d b              12,13,50  calc-line-breaking
             d c                    50  calc-complex-notation
             d d   format           50  calc-date-notation
             d e                  5,50  calc-eng-notation
             d f   num           31,50  calc-fix-notation
             d g              12,13,50  calc-group-digits
             d h   format           50  calc-hms-notation
             d i                    50  calc-i-notation
             d j                    50  calc-j-notation
             d l                 12,50  calc-line-numbering
             d n                  5,50  calc-normal-notation
             d o   format           50  calc-over-notation
             d p                 12,50  calc-show-plain
             d r   radix         31,50  calc-radix
             d s                  5,50  calc-sci-notation
             d t                    27  calc-truncate-stack
             d w                 12,13  calc-auto-why
             d z                 12,50  calc-leading-zeros

             d B                    50  calc-big-language
             d C                    50  calc-c-language
             d E                    50  calc-eqn-language
             d F                    50  calc-fortran-language
             d M                    50  calc-mathematica-language
             d N                    50  calc-normal-language
             d O                    50  calc-flat-language
             d P                    50  calc-pascal-language
             d T                    50  calc-tex-language
             d L                    50  calc-latex-language
             d U                    50  calc-unformatted-language
             d W                    50  calc-maple-language

      a      f [                     4  decr(a,n)
      a      f ]                     4  incr(a,n)

    a b      f b                     2  beta(a,b)
      a      f e                     1  erf(a)
      a    I f e                     1  erfc(a)
      a      f g                     1  gamma(a)
    a b      f h                     2  hypot(a,b)
      a      f i                     1  im(a)
    n a      f j                     2  besJ(n,a)
    a b      f n                     2  min(a,b)
      a      f r                     1  re(a)
      a      f s                     1  sign(a)
    a b      f x                     2  max(a,b)
    n a      f y                     2  besY(n,a)

      a      f A                     1  abssqr(a)
  x a b      f B                        betaI(x,a,b)
  x a b    H f B                        betaB(x,a,b)
      a      f E                     1  expm1(a)
    a x      f G                     2  gammaP(a,x)
    a x    I f G                     2  gammaQ(a,x)
    a x    H f G                     2  gammag(a,x)
    a x  I H f G                     2  gammaG(a,x)
    a b      f I                     2  ilog(a,b)
    a b    I f I                     2  alog(a,b)  b^a
      a      f L                     1  lnp1(a)
      a      f M                     1  mant(a)
      a      f Q                     1  isqrt(a)
      a    I f Q                     1  sqr(a)  a^2
    a n      f S                     2  scf(a,n)
    y x      f T                        arctan2(y,x)
      a      f X                     1  xpon(a)

    x y      g a                 28,40  calc-graph-add
             g b                    12  calc-graph-border
             g c                        calc-graph-clear
             g d                    41  calc-graph-delete
    x y      g f                 28,40  calc-graph-fast
             g g                    12  calc-graph-grid
             g h   title                calc-graph-header
             g j                     4  calc-graph-juggle
             g k                    12  calc-graph-key
             g l                    12  calc-graph-log-x
             g n   name                 calc-graph-name
             g p                    42  calc-graph-plot
             g q                        calc-graph-quit
             g r   range                calc-graph-range-x
             g s                 12,13  calc-graph-line-style
             g t   title                calc-graph-title-x
             g v                        calc-graph-view-commands
             g x   display              calc-graph-display
             g z                    12  calc-graph-zero-x

  x y z      g A                 28,40  calc-graph-add-3d
             g C   command              calc-graph-command
             g D   device        43,44  calc-graph-device
  x y z      g F                 28,40  calc-graph-fast-3d
             g H                    12  calc-graph-hide
             g K                        calc-graph-kill
             g L                    12  calc-graph-log-y
             g N   number        43,51  calc-graph-num-points
             g O   filename      43,44  calc-graph-output
             g P                    42  calc-graph-print
             g R   range                calc-graph-range-y
             g S                 12,13  calc-graph-point-style
             g T   title                calc-graph-title-y
             g V                        calc-graph-view-trail
             g X   format               calc-graph-geometry
             g Z                    12  calc-graph-zero-y

             g C-l                  12  calc-graph-log-z
             g C-r range                calc-graph-range-z
             g C-t title                calc-graph-title-z

             h b                        calc-describe-bindings
             h c   key                  calc-describe-key-briefly
             h f   function             calc-describe-function
             h h                        calc-full-help
             h i                        calc-info
             h k   key                  calc-describe-key
             h n                        calc-view-news
             h s                        calc-info-summary
             h t                        calc-tutorial
             h v   var                  calc-describe-variable

             j 1-9                      calc-select-part
             j <RET>                  27  calc-copy-selection
             j <DEL>                  27  calc-del-selection
             j '   formula          27  calc-enter-selection
             j `   editing       27,30  calc-edit-selection
             j "                  7,27  calc-sel-expand-formula

             j +   formula          27  calc-sel-add-both-sides
             j -   formula          27  calc-sel-sub-both-sides
             j *   formula          27  calc-sel-mul-both-sides
             j /   formula          27  calc-sel-div-both-sides
             j &                    27  calc-sel-invert

             j a                    27  calc-select-additional
             j b                    12  calc-break-selections
             j c                        calc-clear-selections
             j d                 12,50  calc-show-selections
             j e                    12  calc-enable-selections
             j l                  4,27  calc-select-less
             j m                  4,27  calc-select-more
             j n                     4  calc-select-next
             j o                  4,27  calc-select-once
             j p                     4  calc-select-previous
             j r   rules        4,8,27  calc-rewrite-selection
             j s                  4,27  calc-select-here
             j u                    27  calc-unselect
             j v                  7,27  calc-sel-evaluate

             j C                    27  calc-sel-commute
             j D                  4,27  calc-sel-distribute
             j E                    27  calc-sel-jump-equals
             j I                    27  calc-sel-isolate
           H j I                    27  calc-sel-isolate (full)
             j L                  4,27  calc-commute-left
             j M                    27  calc-sel-merge
             j N                    27  calc-sel-negate
             j O                  4,27  calc-select-once-maybe
             j R                  4,27  calc-commute-right
             j S                  4,27  calc-select-here-maybe
             j U                    27  calc-sel-unpack

             k a                        calc-random-again
      n      k b                     1  bern(n)
    n x    H k b                     2  bern(n,x)
    n m      k c                     2  choose(n,m)
    n m    H k c                     2  perm(n,m)
      n      k d                     1  dfact(n)  n!!
      n      k e                     1  euler(n)
    n x    H k e                     2  euler(n,x)
      n      k f                     4  prfac(n)
    n m      k g                     2  gcd(n,m)
    m n      k h                    14  shuffle(n,m)
    n m      k l                     2  lcm(n,m)
      n      k m                     1  moebius(n)
      n      k n                     4  nextprime(n)
      n    I k n                     4  prevprime(n)
      n      k p                  4,28  calc-prime-test
      m      k r                    14  random(m)
    n m      k s                     2  stir1(n,m)
    n m    H k s                     2  stir2(n,m)
      n      k t                     1  totient(n)

  n p x      k B                        utpb(x,n,p)
  n p x    I k B                        ltpb(x,n,p)
    v x      k C                        utpc(x,v)
    v x    I k C                        ltpc(x,v)
    n m      k E                        egcd(n,m)
v1 v2 x      k F                        utpf(x,v1,v2)
v1 v2 x    I k F                        ltpf(x,v1,v2)
  m s x      k N                        utpn(x,m,s)
  m s x    I k N                        ltpn(x,m,s)
    m x      k P                        utpp(x,m)
    m x    I k P                        ltpp(x,m)
    v x      k T                        utpt(x,v)
    v x    I k T                        ltpt(x,v)

             m a                 12,13  calc-algebraic-mode
             m d                        calc-degrees-mode
             m e                        calc-embedded-preserve-modes
             m f                    12  calc-frac-mode
             m g                    52  calc-get-modes
             m h                        calc-hms-mode
             m i                 12,13  calc-infinite-mode
             m m                        calc-save-modes
             m p                    12  calc-polar-mode
             m r                        calc-radians-mode
             m s                    12  calc-symbolic-mode
             m t                    12  calc-total-algebraic-mode
             m v                 12,13  calc-matrix-mode
             m w                    13  calc-working
             m x                        calc-always-load-extensions

             m A                    12  calc-alg-simplify-mode
             m B                    12  calc-bin-simplify-mode
             m C                    12  calc-auto-recompute
             m D                        calc-default-simplify-mode
             m E                    12  calc-ext-simplify-mode
             m F   filename         13  calc-settings-file-name
             m N                    12  calc-num-simplify-mode
             m O                    12  calc-no-simplify-mode
             m R                 12,13  calc-mode-record-mode
             m S                    12  calc-shift-prefix
             m U                    12  calc-units-simplify-mode

             s c   var1, var2       29  calc-copy-variable
             s d   var, decl            calc-declare-variable
             s e   var, editing  29,30  calc-edit-variable
             s i   buffer               calc-insert-variables
             s k   const, var       29  calc-copy-special-constant
    a b      s l   var              29  a  (letting var=b)
  a ...      s m   op, var       22,29  calc-store-map
             s n   var           29,47  calc-store-neg  (v/-1)
             s p   var              29  calc-permanent-variable
             s r   var              29  v  (recalled value)
             r 0-9                      calc-recall-quick
      a      s s   var           28,29  calc-store
      a      s 0-9                      calc-store-quick
      a      s t   var              29  calc-store-into
      a      t 0-9                      calc-store-into-quick
             s u   var              29  calc-unstore
      a      s x   var              29  calc-store-exchange

             s A   editing          30  calc-edit-AlgSimpRules
             s D   editing          30  calc-edit-Decls
             s E   editing          30  calc-edit-EvalRules
             s F   editing          30  calc-edit-FitRules
             s G   editing          30  calc-edit-GenCount
             s H   editing          30  calc-edit-Holidays
             s I   editing          30  calc-edit-IntegLimit
             s L   editing          30  calc-edit-LineStyles
             s P   editing          30  calc-edit-PointStyles
             s R   editing          30  calc-edit-PlotRejects
             s T   editing          30  calc-edit-TimeZone
             s U   editing          30  calc-edit-Units
             s X   editing          30  calc-edit-ExtSimpRules

      a      s +   var           29,47  calc-store-plus  (v+a)
      a      s -   var           29,47  calc-store-minus  (v-a)
      a      s *   var           29,47  calc-store-times  (v*a)
      a      s /   var           29,47  calc-store-div  (v/a)
      a      s ^   var           29,47  calc-store-power  (v^a)
      a      s |   var           29,47  calc-store-concat  (v|a)
             s &   var           29,47  calc-store-inv  (v^-1)
             s [   var           29,47  calc-store-decr  (v-1)
             s ]   var           29,47  calc-store-incr  (v-(-1))
    a b      s :                     2  assign(a,b)  a := b
      a      s =                     1  evalto(a,b)  a =>

             t [                     4  calc-trail-first
             t ]                     4  calc-trail-last
             t <                     4  calc-trail-scroll-left
             t >                     4  calc-trail-scroll-right
             t .                    12  calc-full-trail-vectors

             t b                     4  calc-trail-backward
             t d                 12,50  calc-trail-display
             t f                     4  calc-trail-forward
             t h                        calc-trail-here
             t i                        calc-trail-in
             t k                     4  calc-trail-kill
             t m   string               calc-trail-marker
             t n                     4  calc-trail-next
             t o                        calc-trail-out
             t p                     4  calc-trail-previous
             t r   string               calc-trail-isearch-backward
             t s   string               calc-trail-isearch-forward
             t y                     4  calc-trail-yank

      d      t C   oz, nz               tzconv(d,oz,nz)
d oz nz      t C   $                    tzconv(d,oz,nz)
      d      t D                    15  date(d)
      d      t I                     4  incmonth(d,n)
      d      t J                    16  julian(d,z)
      d      t M                    17  newmonth(d,n)
             t N                    16  now(z)
      d      t P   1                31  year(d)
      d      t P   2                31  month(d)
      d      t P   3                31  day(d)
      d      t P   4                31  hour(d)
      d      t P   5                31  minute(d)
      d      t P   6                31  second(d)
      d      t P   7                31  weekday(d)
      d      t P   8                31  yearday(d)
      d      t P   9                31  time(d)
      d      t U                    16  unixtime(d,z)
      d      t W                    17  newweek(d,w)
      d      t Y                    17  newyear(d,n)

    a b      t +                     2  badd(a,b)
    a b      t -                     2  bsub(a,b)

             u a                    12  calc-autorange-units
      a      u b                        calc-base-units
      a      u c   units            18  calc-convert-units
   defn      u d   unit, descr          calc-define-unit
             u e                        calc-explain-units
             u g   unit                 calc-get-unit-definition
             u p                        calc-permanent-units
      a      u r                        calc-remove-units
      a      u s                        usimplify(a)
      a      u t   units            18  calc-convert-temperature
             u u   unit                 calc-undefine-unit
             u v                        calc-enter-units-table
      a      u x                        calc-extract-units
      a      u 0-9                      calc-quick-units

  v1 v2      u C                    20  vcov(v1,v2)
  v1 v2    I u C                    20  vpcov(v1,v2)
  v1 v2    H u C                    20  vcorr(v1,v2)
      v      u G                    19  vgmean(v)
    a b    H u G                     2  agmean(a,b)
      v      u M                    19  vmean(v)
      v    I u M                    19  vmeane(v)
      v    H u M                    19  vmedian(v)
      v  I H u M                    19  vhmean(v)
      v      u N                    19  vmin(v)
      v      u S                    19  vsdev(v)
      v    I u S                    19  vpsdev(v)
      v    H u S                    19  vvar(v)
      v  I H u S                    19  vpvar(v)
             u V                        calc-view-units-table
      v      u X                    19  vmax(v)

      v      u +                    19  vsum(v)
      v      u *                    19  vprod(v)
      v      u #                    19  vcount(v)

             V (                    50  calc-vector-parens
             V {                    50  calc-vector-braces
             V [                    50  calc-vector-brackets
             V ]   ROCP             50  calc-matrix-brackets
             V ,                    50  calc-vector-commas
             V <                    50  calc-matrix-left-justify
             V =                    50  calc-matrix-center-justify
             V >                    50  calc-matrix-right-justify
             V /                 12,50  calc-break-vectors
             V .                 12,50  calc-full-vectors

    s t      V ^                     2  vint(s,t)
    s t      V -                     2  vdiff(s,t)
      s      V ~                     1  vcompl(s)
      s      V #                     1  vcard(s)
      s      V :                     1  vspan(s)
      s      V +                     1  rdup(s)

      m      V &                     1  inv(m)  1/m

      v      v a   n                    arrange(v,n)
      a      v b   n                    cvec(a,n)
      v      v c   n >0          21,31  mcol(v,n)
      v      v c   n <0             31  mrcol(v,-n)
      m      v c   0                31  getdiag(m)
      v      v d                    25  diag(v,n)
    v m      v e                     2  vexp(v,m)
  v m f    H v e                     2  vexp(v,m,f)
    v a      v f                    26  find(v,a,n)
      v      v h                     1  head(v)
      v    I v h                     1  tail(v)
      v    H v h                     1  rhead(v)
      v  I H v h                     1  rtail(v)
             v i   n                31  idn(1,n)
             v i   0                31  idn(1)
    h t      v k                     2  cons(h,t)
    h t    H v k                     2  rcons(h,t)
      v      v l                     1  vlen(v)
      v    H v l                     1  mdims(v)
    v m      v m                     2  vmask(v,m)
      v      v n                     1  rnorm(v)
  a b c      v p                    24  calc-pack
      v      v r   n >0          21,31  mrow(v,n)
      v      v r   n <0             31  mrrow(v,-n)
      m      v r   0                31  getdiag(m)
  v i j      v s                        subvec(v,i,j)
  v i j    I v s                        rsubvec(v,i,j)
      m      v t                     1  trn(m)
      v      v u                    24  calc-unpack
      v      v v                     1  rev(v)
             v x   n                31  index(n)
  n s i  C-u v x                        index(n,s,i)

      v      V A   op               22  apply(op,v)
  v1 v2      V C                     2  cross(v1,v2)
      m      V D                     1  det(m)
      s      V E                     1  venum(s)
      s      V F                     1  vfloor(s)
      v      V G                        grade(v)
      v    I V G                        rgrade(v)
      v      V H   n                31  histogram(v,n)
    v w    H V H   n                31  histogram(v,w,n)
  v1 v2      V I   mop aop          22  inner(mop,aop,v1,v2)
      m      V J                     1  ctrn(m)
      m      V L                     1  lud(m)
      v      V M   op            22,23  map(op,v)
      v      V N                     1  cnorm(v)
  v1 v2      V O   op               22  outer(op,v1,v2)
      v      V R   op            22,23  reduce(op,v)
      v    I V R   op            22,23  rreduce(op,v)
    a n    H V R   op               22  nest(op,a,n)
      a  I H V R   op               22  fixp(op,a)
      v      V S                        sort(v)
      v    I V S                        rsort(v)
      m      V T                     1  tr(m)
      v      V U   op               22  accum(op,v)
      v    I V U   op               22  raccum(op,v)
    a n    H V U   op               22  anest(op,a,n)
      a  I H V U   op               22  afixp(op,a)
    s t      V V                     2  vunion(s,t)
    s t      V X                     2  vxor(s,t)

             Y                          user commands

             z                          user commands

      c      Z [                    45  calc-kbd-if
      c      Z |                    45  calc-kbd-else-if
             Z :                        calc-kbd-else
             Z ]                        calc-kbd-end-if

             Z {                     4  calc-kbd-loop
      c      Z /                    45  calc-kbd-break
             Z }                        calc-kbd-end-loop
      n      Z <                        calc-kbd-repeat
             Z >                        calc-kbd-end-repeat
    n m      Z (                        calc-kbd-for
      s      Z )                        calc-kbd-end-for

             Z C-g                      cancel if/loop command

             Z `                        calc-kbd-push
             Z '                        calc-kbd-pop
             Z #                        calc-kbd-query

   comp      Z C   func, args       50  calc-user-define-composition
             Z D   key, command         calc-user-define
             Z E   key, editing     30  calc-user-define-edit
   defn      Z F   k, c, f, a, n    28  calc-user-define-formula
             Z G   key                  calc-get-user-defn
             Z I                        calc-user-define-invocation
             Z K   key, command         calc-user-define-kbd-macro
             Z P   key                  calc-user-define-permanent
             Z S                    30  calc-edit-user-syntax
             Z T                    12  calc-timing
             Z U   key                  calc-user-undefine

NOTES

  1. Positive prefix arguments apply to `n' stack entries.  Negative
     prefix arguments apply to the `-n'th stack entry.  A prefix of
     zero applies to the entire stack.  (For <LFD> and `M-<DEL>', the
     meaning of the sign is reversed.)

  2. Positive prefix arguments apply to `n' stack entries.  Negative
     prefix arguments apply to the top stack entry and the next `-n'
     stack entries.

  3. Positive prefix arguments rotate top `n' stack entries by one.
     Negative prefix arguments rotate the entire stack by `-n'.  A
     prefix of zero reverses the entire stack.

  4. Prefix argument specifies a repeat count or distance.

  5. Positive prefix arguments specify a precision `p'.  Negative
     prefix arguments reduce the current precision by `-p'.

  6. A prefix argument is interpreted as an additional step-size
     parameter.  A plain `C-u' prefix means to prompt for the step size.

  7. A prefix argument specifies simplification level and depth.
     1=Default, 2=like `a s', 3=like `a e'.

  8. A negative prefix operates only on the top level of the input
     formula.

  9. Positive prefix arguments specify a word size of `w' bits,
     unsigned.  Negative prefix arguments specify a word size of `w'
     bits, signed.

 10. Prefix arguments specify the shift amount `n'.  The `w' argument
     cannot be specified in the keyboard version of this command.

 11. From the keyboard, `d' is omitted and defaults to zero.

 12. Mode is toggled; a positive prefix always sets the mode, and a
     negative prefix always clears the mode.

 13. Some prefix argument values provide special variations of the mode.

 14. A prefix argument, if any, is used for `m' instead of taking `m'
     from the stack.  `M' may take any of these values:
    Integer
          Random integer in the interval `[0 .. m)'.

    Float
          Random floating-point number in the interval `[0 .. m)'.

    0.0
          Gaussian with mean 1 and standard deviation 0.

    Error form
          Gaussian with specified mean and standard deviation.

    Interval
          Random integer or floating-point number in that interval.

    Vector
          Random element from the vector.

 15. A prefix argument from 1 to 6 specifies number of date components
     to remove from the stack.  *Note Date Conversions::.

 16. A prefix argument specifies a time zone; `C-u' says to take the
     time zone number or name from the top of the stack.  *Note Time
     Zones::.

 17. A prefix argument specifies a day number (0-6, 0-31, or 0-366).

 18. If the input has no units, you will be prompted for both the old
     and the new units.

 19. With a prefix argument, collect that many stack entries to form the
     input data set.  Each entry may be a single value or a vector of
     values.

 20. With a prefix argument of 1, take a single Nx2 matrix from the
     stack instead of two separate data vectors.

 21. The row or column number `n' may be given as a numeric prefix
     argument instead.  A plain `C-u' prefix says to take `n' from the
     top of the stack.  If `n' is a vector or interval, a
     subvector/submatrix of the input is created.

 22. The `op' prompt can be answered with the key sequence for the
     desired function, or with `x' or `z' followed by a function name,
     or with `$' to take a formula from the top of the stack, or with
     `'' and a typed formula.  In the last two cases, the formula may
     be a nameless function like `<#1+#2>' or `<x, y : x+y>', or it may
     include `$', `$$', etc. (where `$' will correspond to the last
     argument of the created function), or otherwise you will be
     prompted for an argument list.  The number of vectors popped from
     the stack by `V M' depends on the number of arguments of the
     function.

 23. One of the mapping direction keys `_' (horizontal, i.e., map by
     rows or reduce across), `:' (vertical, i.e., map by columns or
     reduce down), or `=' (map or reduce by rows) may be used before
     entering `op'; these modify the function name by adding the letter
     `r' for "rows," `c' for "columns," `a' for "across," or `d' for
     "down."

 24. The prefix argument specifies a packing mode.  A nonnegative mode
     is the number of items (for `v p') or the number of levels (for `v
     u').  A negative mode is as described below.  With no prefix
     argument, the mode is taken from the top of the stack and may be
     an integer or a vector of integers.
    `-1'
          (2)  Rectangular complex number.

    `-2'
          (2)  Polar complex number.

    `-3'
          (3)  HMS form.

    `-4'
          (2)  Error form.

    `-5'
          (2)  Modulo form.

    `-6'
          (2)  Closed interval.

    `-7'
          (2)  Closed .. open interval.

    `-8'
          (2)  Open .. closed interval.

    `-9'
          (2)  Open interval.

    `-10'
          (2)  Fraction.

    `-11'
          (2)  Float with integer mantissa.

    `-12'
          (2)  Float with mantissa in `[1 .. 10)'.

    `-13'
          (1)  Date form (using date numbers).

    `-14'
          (3)  Date form (using year, month, day).

    `-15'
          (6)  Date form (using year, month, day, hour, minute, second).

 25. A prefix argument specifies the size `n' of the matrix.  With no
     prefix argument, `n' is omitted and the size is inferred from the
     input vector.

 26. The prefix argument specifies the starting position `n' (default
     1).

 27. Cursor position within stack buffer affects this command.

 28. Arguments are not actually removed from the stack by this command.

 29. Variable name may be a single digit or a full name.

 30. Editing occurs in a separate buffer.  Press `C-c C-c' (or <LFD>,
     or in some cases <RET>) to finish the edit, or kill the buffer
     with `C-x k' to cancel the edit.  The <LFD> key prevents evaluation
     of the result of the edit.

 31. The number prompted for can also be provided as a prefix argument.

 32. Press this key a second time to cancel the prefix.

 33. With a negative prefix, deactivate all formulas.  With a positive
     prefix, deactivate and then reactivate from scratch.

 34. Default is to scan for nearest formula delimiter symbols.  With a
     prefix of zero, formula is delimited by mark and point.  With a
     non-zero prefix, formula is delimited by scanning forward or
     backward by that many lines.

 35. Parse the region between point and mark as a vector.  A nonzero
     prefix parses N lines before or after point as a vector.  A zero
     prefix parses the current line as a vector.  A `C-u' prefix parses
     the region between point and mark as a single formula.

 36. Parse the rectangle defined by point and mark as a matrix.  A
     positive prefix N divides the rectangle into columns of width N.
     A zero or `C-u' prefix parses each line as one formula.  A negative
     prefix suppresses special treatment of bracketed portions of a
     line.

 37. A numeric prefix causes the current language mode to be ignored.

 38. Responding to a prompt with a blank line answers that and all
     later prompts by popping additional stack entries.

 39. Answer for `v' may also be of the form `v = v_0' or `v - v_0'.

 40. With a positive prefix argument, stack contains many `y''s and one
     common `x'.  With a zero prefix, stack contains a vector of `y's
     and a common `x'.  With a negative prefix, stack contains many
     `[x,y]' vectors.  (For 3D plots, substitute `z' for `y' and `x,y'
     for `x'.)

 41. With any prefix argument, all curves in the graph are deleted.

 42. With a positive prefix, refines an existing plot with more data
     points.  With a negative prefix, forces recomputation of the plot
     data.

 43. With any prefix argument, set the default value instead of the
     value for this graph.

 44. With a negative prefix argument, set the value for the printer.

 45. Condition is considered "true" if it is a nonzero real or complex
     number, or a formula whose value is known to be nonzero; it is
     "false" otherwise.

 46. Several formulas separated by commas are pushed as multiple stack
     entries.  Trailing `)', `]', `}', `>', and `"' delimiters may be
     omitted.  The notation `$$$' refers to the value in stack level
     three, and causes the formula to replace the top three stack
     levels.  The notation `$3' refers to stack level three without
     causing that value to be removed from the stack.  Use <LFD> in
     place of <RET> to prevent evaluation; use `M-=' in place of <RET>
     to evaluate variables.

 47. The variable is replaced by the formula shown on the right.  The
     Inverse flag reverses the order of the operands, e.g., `I s - x'
     assigns `x := a-x'.

 48. Press `?' repeatedly to see how to choose a model.  Answer the
     variables prompt with `iv' or `iv;pv' to specify independent and
     parameter variables.  A positive prefix argument takes N+1 vectors
     from the stack; a zero prefix takes a matrix and a vector from the
     stack.

 49. With a plain `C-u' prefix, replace the current region of the
     destination buffer with the yanked text instead of inserting.

 50. All stack entries are reformatted; the `H' prefix inhibits this.
     The `I' prefix sets the mode temporarily, redraws the top stack
     entry, then restores the original setting of the mode.

 51. A negative prefix sets the default 3D resolution instead of the
     default 2D resolution.

 52. This grabs a vector of the form [PREC, WSIZE, SSIZE, RADIX, FLFMT,
     ANG, FRAC, SYMB, POLAR, MATRIX, SIMP, INF].  A prefix argument
     from 1 to 12 grabs the Nth mode value only.


File: calc,  Node: Key Index,  Next: Command Index,  Prev: Summary,  Up: Top

Index of Key Sequences
**********************

 [index ]
* Menu:

* !:                                     Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  24)
* ":                                     Strings.             (line   6)
* " (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* #:                                     Integers.            (line  18)
* $:                                     Algebraic Entry.     (line  54)
* %:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 131)
* &:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 169)
* & (matrices):                          Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  41)
* ':                                     Algebraic Entry.     (line   6)
* ' (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* (:                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line   6)
* ):                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line   6)
* *:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line  70)
* +:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line   6)
* ,:                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line   6)
* -:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line  65)
* .:                                     Numeric Entry.       (line   6)
* ..:                                    Incomplete Objects.  (line  32)
* /:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line  89)
* 0-9:                                   Numeric Entry.       (line   6)
* ::                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 138)
* ;:                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line  27)
* <:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  90)
* <DEL>:                                 Stack Manipulation.  (line  23)
* <LFD>:                                 Stack Manipulation.  (line  16)
* <RET>:                                 Stack Manipulation.  (line   6)
* <SPC>:                                 Stack Manipulation.  (line   6)
* <TAB>:                                 Stack Manipulation.  (line  39)
* =:                                     Variables.           (line  30)
* >:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  90)
* ?:                                     Help Commands.       (line   6)
* @:                                     HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* [:                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line   6)
* \:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 124)
* ]:                                     Incomplete Objects.  (line   6)
* ^:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 113)
* _:                                     Numeric Entry.       (line  12)
* `:                                     Editing Stack Entries.
                                                              (line   6)
* A:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 150)
* a !:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  86)
* a ":                                   Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  59)
* a #:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  46)
* a %:                                   Polynomials.         (line 133)
* a &:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  75)
* A (vectors):                           Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  19)
* a *:                                   Summations.          (line 116)
* a +:                                   Summations.          (line   6)
* a -:                                   Summations.          (line 104)
* a .:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  65)
* a /:                                   Polynomials.         (line 139)
* a ::                                   Logical Operations.  (line  90)
* a <:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* a =:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  20)
* a >:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* a [:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* a \:                                   Polynomials.         (line 119)
* a ]:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* a _:                                   Extracting Elements. (line  24)
* a a:                                   Polynomials.         (line 105)
* a b:                                   Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line 109)
* a c:                                   Polynomials.         (line  68)
* a d:                                   Differentiation.     (line   6)
* a e:                                   Unsafe Simplifications.
                                                              (line   6)
* a F:                                   Linear Fits.         (line   6)
* a f:                                   Polynomials.         (line  13)
* a g:                                   Polynomials.         (line 145)
* a I:                                   Numerical Integration.
                                                              (line   6)
* a i:                                   Integration.         (line   6)
* a m:                                   Matching Commands.   (line   6)
* a M:                                   Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  73)
* a N:                                   Minimization.        (line   6)
* a n:                                   Polynomials.         (line 112)
* a p:                                   Interpolation.       (line   6)
* a P:                                   Multiple Solutions.  (line  63)
* a r:                                   Rewrite Rules.       (line   6)
* a R:                                   Root Finding.        (line   6)
* a S:                                   Solving Equations.   (line   6)
* a s:                                   Simplifying Formulas.
                                                              (line   6)
* a T:                                   Summations.          (line 122)
* a t:                                   Taylor Series.       (line   6)
* a v:                                   Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  15)
* a X:                                   Minimization.        (line   6)
* a x:                                   Polynomials.         (line  83)
* a {:                                   Logical Operations.  (line 109)
* a |:                                   Logical Operations.  (line  81)
* B:                                     Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* b #:                                   Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  21)
* b %:                                   Percentages.         (line  44)
* b a:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  57)
* b c:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  26)
* b d:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  71)
* b D:                                   Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* b F:                                   Future Value.        (line   6)
* b I:                                   Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  50)
* b L:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  97)
* b l:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  78)
* b M:                                   Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line   9)
* b n:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  75)
* b N:                                   Present Value.       (line  46)
* b o:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  63)
* b p:                                   Set Operations.      (line 111)
* b P:                                   Present Value.       (line   6)
* b R:                                   Binary Functions.    (line 102)
* b r:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  93)
* b S:                                   Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* b t:                                   Binary Functions.    (line 111)
* b T:                                   Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  38)
* b u:                                   Set Operations.      (line 111)
* b w:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  35)
* b x:                                   Binary Functions.    (line  67)
* b Y:                                   Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* C:                                     Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* c %:                                   Percentages.         (line  34)
* c 0-9:                                 Conversions.         (line 101)
* c c:                                   Conversions.         (line  81)
* c d:                                   Conversions.         (line  56)
* c F:                                   Conversions.         (line  40)
* c f:                                   Conversions.         (line   9)
* c h:                                   Conversions.         (line  64)
* c p:                                   Conversions.         (line  73)
* c r:                                   Conversions.         (line  61)
* C-_:                                   Undo.                (line   6)
* C-d:                                   Stack Manipulation.  (line  23)
* C-k:                                   Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* C-w:                                   Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* C-x * ':                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 115)
* C-x * *:                               Basic Commands.      (line  19)
* C-x * 0:                               Basic Commands.      (line 100)
* C-x * ::                               Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  77)
* C-x * _:                               Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  77)
* C-x * `:                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 134)
* C-x * a:                               Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  93)
* C-x * b:                               Basic Commands.      (line  48)
* C-x * c:                               Basic Commands.      (line  19)
* C-x * d:                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  84)
* C-x * e:                               Basic Embedded Mode. (line   6)
* C-x * f:                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 115)
* C-x * g:                               Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line   6)
* C-x * i:                               Help Commands.       (line  20)
* C-x * j:                               Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  51)
* C-x * k:                               Keypad Mode.         (line   6)
* C-x * L:                               Autoloading Problems.
                                                              (line  12)
* C-x * m:                               Naming Keyboard Macros.
                                                              (line  39)
* C-x * n:                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 123)
* C-x * o:                               Basic Commands.      (line  56)
* C-x * p:                               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 123)
* C-x * q:                               Quick Calculator.    (line   6)
* C-x * r:                               Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  37)
* C-x * s:                               Help Commands.       (line  37)
* C-x * t:                               Help Commands.       (line  29)
* C-x * u:                               Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  64)
* C-x * w:                               Basic Embedded Mode. (line  53)
* C-x * x:                               Basic Commands.      (line  79)
* C-x * y:                               Yanking Into Buffers.
                                                              (line  50)
* C-x * z:                               Invocation Macros.   (line   6)
* C-y:                                   Yanking Into Stack.  (line   6)
* D:                                     Undo.                (line  21)
* d ":                                   Strings.             (line  25)
* d ,:                                   Grouping Digits.     (line  20)
* d .:                                   Float Formats.       (line  50)
* d 0:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  12)
* d 2:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  12)
* d 6:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  12)
* d 8:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  12)
* d <:                                   Justification.       (line   6)
* d <RET>:                               Display Modes.       (line  19)
* d <SPC>:                               Basic Commands.      (line  83)
* d =:                                   Justification.       (line   6)
* d >:                                   Justification.       (line   6)
* d [:                                   Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line  25)
* d ]:                                   Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line  25)
* d B:                                   Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  24)
* d b:                                   Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  16)
* d C:                                   C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line   6)
* d c:                                   Complex Formats.     (line   6)
* d d:                                   Date Formats.        (line   6)
* d E:                                   Eqn Language Mode.   (line   6)
* d e:                                   Float Formats.       (line  34)
* d F:                                   C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line  40)
* d f:                                   Float Formats.       (line  20)
* d g:                                   Grouping Digits.     (line   6)
* d h:                                   HMS Formats.         (line   6)
* d i:                                   Complex Formats.     (line  11)
* d j:                                   Complex Formats.     (line  11)
* d L:                                   TeX and LaTeX Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* d l:                                   Stack Basics.        (line  24)
* d M:                                   Mathematica Language Mode.
                                                              (line   6)
* d N:                                   Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* d n:                                   Float Formats.       (line  12)
* d O:                                   Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  11)
* d o:                                   Fraction Formats.    (line   6)
* d p:                                   More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  19)
* d P:                                   C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line  30)
* d r:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  19)
* d s:                                   Float Formats.       (line  28)
* d T:                                   TeX and LaTeX Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* d t:                                   Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line   6)
* d U:                                   Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  67)
* d W:                                   Maple Language Mode. (line   6)
* d w:                                   Error Messages.      (line  20)
* d z:                                   Radix Modes.         (line  23)
* d {:                                   Labels.              (line   6)
* d }:                                   Labels.              (line  16)
* E:                                     Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  11)
* e:                                     Numeric Entry.       (line   6)
* F:                                     Integer Truncation.  (line  15)
* f [:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 212)
* f ]:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 212)
* f A:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 160)
* f B:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  47)
* f b:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  42)
* f e:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* f E:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  37)
* f G:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  25)
* f g:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  18)
* f h:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 177)
* f I:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* f i:                                   Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* f j:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  58)
* f L:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  41)
* f M:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 195)
* f n:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 189)
* f Q:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 182)
* f r:                                   Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  24)
* f S:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 206)
* f s:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 163)
* f T:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* f X:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 195)
* f x:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 189)
* f y:                                   Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  58)
* G:                                     Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* g A:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  62)
* g a:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  11)
* g b:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  13)
* g C:                                   Devices.             (line 109)
* g c:                                   Basic Graphics.      (line  66)
* g C-l:                                 Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* g C-r:                                 Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* g C-t:                                 Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* g D:                                   Devices.             (line   6)
* g d:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  78)
* g F:                                   Three Dimensional Graphics.
                                                              (line   6)
* g f:                                   Basic Graphics.      (line   6)
* g g:                                   Graphics Options.    (line   6)
* g h:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  45)
* g H:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  83)
* g j:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  88)
* g K:                                   Devices.             (line 144)
* g k:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  17)
* g L:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  74)
* g l:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  74)
* g n:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  49)
* g N:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  22)
* g O:                                   Devices.             (line  44)
* g P:                                   Managing Curves.     (line 126)
* g p:                                   Managing Curves.     (line  95)
* g q:                                   Devices.             (line 137)
* g R:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  65)
* g r:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  65)
* g S:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  98)
* g s:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  89)
* g T:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  57)
* g t:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  57)
* g V:                                   Devices.             (line 115)
* g v:                                   Devices.             (line 115)
* g X:                                   Devices.             (line  96)
* g x:                                   Devices.             (line  91)
* g Z:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  82)
* g z:                                   Graphics Options.    (line  82)
* H:                                     Inverse and Hyperbolic.
                                                              (line  12)
* h (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* H a /:                                 Polynomials.         (line 139)
* H a d:                                 Differentiation.     (line   6)
* H a F:                                 Error Estimates for Fits.
                                                              (line   6)
* H a f:                                 Polynomials.         (line  56)
* H a M:                                 Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  98)
* H a N:                                 Minimization.        (line   6)
* H a p:                                 Interpolation.       (line  35)
* H a R:                                 Root Finding.        (line  52)
* H a S:                                 Multiple Solutions.  (line   6)
* H a X:                                 Minimization.        (line   6)
* h b:                                   Help Commands.       (line  77)
* H b #:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  32)
* H b F:                                 Future Value.        (line  24)
* H b L:                                 Binary Functions.    (line  86)
* H b l:                                 Binary Functions.    (line  86)
* H b M:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  18)
* H b P:                                 Present Value.       (line  34)
* H b R:                                 Binary Functions.    (line  86)
* H b r:                                 Binary Functions.    (line  86)
* H b t:                                 Binary Functions.    (line  86)
* H b T:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  43)
* H C:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* h c:                                   Help Commands.       (line  52)
* H c 0-9:                               Conversions.         (line 126)
* H c c:                                 Conversions.         (line 126)
* H c F:                                 Conversions.         (line  52)
* H c f:                                 Conversions.         (line  30)
* h C-c:                                 Help Commands.       (line  84)
* h C-d:                                 Help Commands.       (line  84)
* h C-w:                                 Help Commands.       (line  84)
* H E:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* H F:                                   Integer Truncation.  (line  15)
* h f:                                   Help Commands.       (line  67)
* H f B:                                 Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  47)
* H f G:                                 Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  25)
* h h:                                   Help Commands.       (line  12)
* h i:                                   Help Commands.       (line  20)
* H I a S:                               Multiple Solutions.  (line  56)
* H I C:                                 Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* H I E:                                 Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* H I F:                                 Integer Truncation.  (line  19)
* H I f G:                               Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  25)
* H I L:                                 Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* H I P:                                 Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* H I R:                                 Integer Truncation.  (line  29)
* H I S:                                 Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* H I T:                                 Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* H I u M:                               Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  99)
* H I u S:                               Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 143)
* H I v h:                               Building Vectors.    (line  98)
* H I V R:                               Nesting and Fixed Points.
                                                              (line  18)
* H I V U:                               Nesting and Fixed Points.
                                                              (line  22)
* H I |:                                 Building Vectors.    (line  28)
* H j I:                                 Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 109)
* h k:                                   Help Commands.       (line  41)
* H k b:                                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  52)
* H k c:                                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* H k e:                                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  60)
* H k s:                                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  64)
* H L:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* h n:                                   Help Commands.       (line  80)
* H P:                                   Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* H R:                                   Integer Truncation.  (line  23)
* H S:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* h s:                                   Help Commands.       (line  37)
* H T:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* h t:                                   Help Commands.       (line  29)
* H u C:                                 Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  28)
* H u G:                                 Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 108)
* H u M:                                 Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  85)
* H u S:                                 Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 143)
* h v:                                   Help Commands.       (line  74)
* H v e:                                 Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 125)
* H V H:                                 Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  89)
* H v h:                                 Building Vectors.    (line  98)
* H v k:                                 Building Vectors.    (line  98)
* H v l:                                 Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  11)
* H V R:                                 Nesting and Fixed Points.
                                                              (line   6)
* H V U:                                 Nesting and Fixed Points.
                                                              (line  13)
* H |:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  22)
* I:                                     Inverse and Hyperbolic.
                                                              (line   6)
* i:                                     Help Commands.       (line  20)
* I ^:                                   Basic Arithmetic.    (line 120)
* I a F:                                 Error Estimates for Fits.
                                                              (line  50)
* I a m:                                 Matching Commands.   (line  26)
* I a M:                                 Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line 104)
* I a S:                                 Multiple Solutions.  (line  56)
* I B:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* I b #:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  27)
* I b F:                                 Future Value.        (line  15)
* I b I:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  55)
* I b M:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  14)
* I b N:                                 Present Value.       (line  66)
* I b P:                                 Present Value.       (line  28)
* I b T:                                 Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  43)
* I C:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* I c p:                                 Conversions.         (line  73)
* I E:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* I F:                                   Integer Truncation.  (line  19)
* I f e:                                 Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* I f G:                                 Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  25)
* I k B:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* I k C:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  40)
* I k F:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* I k N:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* I k n:                                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 115)
* I k P:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* I k T:                                 Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  57)
* I L:                                   Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  11)
* I M:                                   Recursion Depth.     (line   6)
* I P:                                   Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* I Q:                                   Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  23)
* I R:                                   Integer Truncation.  (line  29)
* I S:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  34)
* I T:                                   Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* I u C:                                 Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  24)
* I u M:                                 Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  73)
* I u S:                                 Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 130)
* I V G:                                 Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  53)
* I v h:                                 Building Vectors.    (line  87)
* I V R:                                 Reducing.            (line  15)
* I V S:                                 Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  39)
* I v s:                                 Extracting Elements. (line  73)
* I V U:                                 Reducing.            (line  27)
* I |:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  28)
* J:                                     Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* j ":                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 180)
* j &:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  98)
* j ':                                   Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  43)
* j *:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 116)
* j +:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 152)
* j -:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 152)
* j /:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 116)
* j 1-9:                                 Changing Selections. (line  35)
* j <DEL>:                               Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  77)
* j <RET>:                               Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  83)
* j `:                                   Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  53)
* j a:                                   Making Selections.   (line  66)
* j b:                                   Making Selections.   (line  96)
* j C:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  74)
* j c:                                   Making Selections.   (line 118)
* j D:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  41)
* j d:                                   Displaying Selections.
                                                              (line   6)
* j E:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 103)
* j e:                                   Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  11)
* j I:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 109)
* j L:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  32)
* j l:                                   Changing Selections. (line  29)
* j M:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  68)
* j m:                                   Changing Selections. (line   6)
* j N:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  90)
* j n:                                   Changing Selections. (line  49)
* j O:                                   Making Selections.   (line  83)
* j o:                                   Making Selections.   (line  73)
* j p:                                   Changing Selections. (line  49)
* j r:                                   Selections with Rewrite Rules.
                                                              (line  12)
* j R:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line   6)
* j S:                                   Making Selections.   (line  83)
* j s:                                   Making Selections.   (line   6)
* j U:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 158)
* j u:                                   Making Selections.   (line 113)
* j v:                                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 164)
* K:                                     Keep Arguments.      (line   6)
* k a:                                   Random Numbers.      (line  63)
* k B:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* k b:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  52)
* k C:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  40)
* k c:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  42)
* k d:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  34)
* k e:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  60)
* k E:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  20)
* k F:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* k f:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  93)
* k g:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line   9)
* k h:                                   Random Numbers.      (line  67)
* k l:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* k m:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 122)
* k N:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* k n:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 103)
* k P:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* k p:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  71)
* k r:                                   Random Numbers.      (line   6)
* k s:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  64)
* k T:                                   Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  57)
* k t:                                   Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 118)
* L:                                     Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* M:                                     Recursion Depth.     (line   6)
* m (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* M (modulo forms):                      Modulo Forms.        (line  12)
* m A:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  48)
* m a:                                   Algebraic Entry.     (line  25)
* m B:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  41)
* m C <1>:                               Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  41)
* m C:                                   Automatic Recomputation.
                                                              (line  11)
* m D:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  36)
* m d:                                   Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* m e:                                   Mode Settings in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line   6)
* m E:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  53)
* m f:                                   Fraction Mode.       (line  13)
* m F:                                   General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  27)
* m g:                                   Modes Variable.      (line   6)
* m h:                                   Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* m i:                                   Infinite Mode.       (line  10)
* m m:                                   General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line   6)
* m N:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  26)
* m O:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  21)
* m p:                                   Polar Mode.          (line  12)
* m r:                                   Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* m R:                                   General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  18)
* m s:                                   Symbolic Mode.       (line  12)
* m S:                                   General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  57)
* m t:                                   Algebraic Entry.     (line  39)
* m U:                                   Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  57)
* m v:                                   Matrix Mode.         (line  11)
* m w:                                   Working Message.     (line  14)
* m x:                                   General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  48)
* M-%:                                   Percentages.         (line   6)
* M-<DEL>:                               Stack Manipulation.  (line  33)
* M-<RET>:                               Undo.                (line  29)
* M-<TAB>:                               Stack Manipulation.  (line  49)
* M-k:                                   Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* M-w:                                   Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* M-x:                                   Basic Commands.      (line  23)
* n:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 146)
* N:                                     Symbolic Mode.       (line  17)
* o:                                     Stack Basics.        (line  30)
* o (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* P:                                     Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* p:                                     Precision.           (line   6)
* p (error forms):                       Error Forms.         (line  47)
* Q:                                     Basic Arithmetic.    (line 173)
* q:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  72)
* R:                                     Integer Truncation.  (line  23)
* r 0-9:                                 Recalling Variables. (line  18)
* S:                                     Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* s &:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s (HMS forms):                         HMS Forms.           (line  13)
* s *:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s +:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s -:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s /:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s 0-9:                                 Storing Variables.   (line  37)
* s ::                                   Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  90)
* s =:                                   Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  22)
* s [:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s ]:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s ^:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s A:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s c:                                   Storing Variables.   (line 115)
* s D:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s d:                                   Declaration Basics.  (line   6)
* s E:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s e:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line   6)
* s F:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s G:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s H:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s i:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  87)
* s I:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s k:                                   Storing Variables.   (line 137)
* s l:                                   Let Command.         (line   6)
* s L:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s m:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  84)
* s n:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* s p:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  70)
* s P:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s R:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s r:                                   Recalling Variables. (line   6)
* s s:                                   Storing Variables.   (line   6)
* s T:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s t:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  12)
* s U:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s u:                                   Storing Variables.   (line 110)
* s X:                                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* s x:                                   Storing Variables.   (line 102)
* s |:                                   Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* T:                                     Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* t +:                                   Business Days.       (line  13)
* t -:                                   Business Days.       (line  13)
* t .:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  78)
* t 0-9:                                 Storing Variables.   (line  37)
* t <:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  36)
* t >:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  36)
* t [:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* t ]:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* t b:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* t C:                                   Date Conversions.    (line  60)
* t D:                                   Date Conversions.    (line   6)
* t d:                                   Trail Commands.      (line   9)
* t f:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* t h:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* t I:                                   Date Functions.      (line  98)
* t i:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  19)
* t J:                                   Date Conversions.    (line  35)
* t k:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  66)
* t M:                                   Date Functions.      (line  51)
* t m:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  60)
* t N:                                   Date Functions.      (line   6)
* t n:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* t o:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  19)
* t P:                                   Date Functions.      (line  11)
* t p:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* t r:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  53)
* t s:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  53)
* t U:                                   Date Conversions.    (line  50)
* t W:                                   Date Functions.      (line  68)
* t Y:                                   Date Functions.      (line  59)
* t y:                                   Trail Commands.      (line  30)
* U:                                     Undo.                (line   6)
* u #:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  36)
* u *:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  42)
* u +:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  42)
* u 0-9:                                 User-Defined Units.  (line   9)
* u a:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 125)
* u b:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 103)
* u c:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line  51)
* u C:                                   Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  13)
* u d:                                   User-Defined Units.  (line  27)
* u e:                                   The Units Table.     (line  45)
* u g:                                   The Units Table.     (line  35)
* u G:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 103)
* u M:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  55)
* u N:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  48)
* u p:                                   User-Defined Units.  (line  58)
* u r:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 118)
* u s:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line  31)
* u S:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 116)
* u t:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 113)
* u u:                                   User-Defined Units.  (line  35)
* u V:                                   The Units Table.     (line  27)
* u v:                                   The Units Table.     (line   6)
* u x:                                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 118)
* u X:                                   Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  48)
* V #:                                   Set Operations.      (line  95)
* V (:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* V +:                                   Set Operations.      (line  34)
* V ,:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  59)
* V -:                                   Set Operations.      (line  55)
* V .:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  71)
* V /:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  86)
* V ::                                   Set Operations.      (line  89)
* V <:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* V =:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* V >:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* V [:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* V ]:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  28)
* V ^:                                   Set Operations.      (line  47)
* V A:                                   Reducing and Mapping.
                                                              (line   9)
* v a:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  23)
* v b:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  80)
* V C:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  37)
* v c:                                   Extracting Elements. (line  44)
* V D:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  52)
* v d:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  32)
* V E:                                   Set Operations.      (line  84)
* v e:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 115)
* V F:                                   Set Operations.      (line  75)
* v f:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  16)
* V G:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  53)
* V H:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  79)
* v h:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  87)
* V I:                                   Generalized Products.
                                                              (line  14)
* v i:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  45)
* V J:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  16)
* v k:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  92)
* V L:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  55)
* v l:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line   6)
* V M:                                   Mapping.             (line   6)
* v m:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 107)
* V N:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  31)
* v n:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  25)
* V O:                                   Generalized Products.
                                                              (line   6)
* v p:                                   Packing and Unpacking.
                                                              (line  11)
* v p (complex):                         Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  33)
* V R:                                   Reducing.            (line   6)
* v r:                                   Extracting Elements. (line   6)
* V S:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  39)
* v s:                                   Extracting Elements. (line  57)
* V T:                                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  62)
* v t:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  96)
* V U:                                   Reducing.            (line  21)
* v u:                                   Packing and Unpacking.
                                                              (line 124)
* v u (complex):                         Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* V V:                                   Set Operations.      (line  42)
* v v:                                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 101)
* V X:                                   Set Operations.      (line  65)
* v x:                                   Building Vectors.    (line  61)
* V {:                                   Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* V ~:                                   Set Operations.      (line  70)
* w:                                     Error Messages.      (line   6)
* X:                                     Keyboard Macros.     (line   6)
* x:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  23)
* Y:                                     Defining Simple Commands.
                                                              (line  87)
* y:                                     Yanking Into Buffers.
                                                              (line   6)
* Y ?:                                   Defining Simple Commands.
                                                              (line  87)
* z:                                     Programming.         (line  30)
* Z #:                                   Queries in Macros.   (line   6)
* Z ':                                   Local Values in Macros.
                                                              (line  11)
* Z (:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line  33)
* Z ):                                   Loops in Macros.     (line  33)
* Z /:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line  26)
* Z ::                                   Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line  31)
* Z <:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line   6)
* Z >:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line   6)
* Z [:                                   Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* Z ]:                                   Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* Z `:                                   Local Values in Macros.
                                                              (line  11)
* Z C:                                   User-Defined Compositions.
                                                              (line   6)
* Z C-g:                                 Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line  60)
* Z D:                                   Creating User Keys.  (line   6)
* Z E:                                   Creating User Keys.  (line  60)
* Z F:                                   Algebraic Definitions.
                                                              (line   6)
* Z G:                                   Algebraic Definitions.
                                                              (line  75)
* Z I:                                   Invocation Macros.   (line   6)
* Z K:                                   Naming Keyboard Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* Z P:                                   Creating User Keys.  (line  36)
* Z S:                                   Syntax Tables.       (line  13)
* Z T:                                   Debugging Calc.      (line  10)
* Z U:                                   Creating User Keys.  (line  32)
* Z {:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line  56)
* Z |:                                   Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line  38)
* Z }:                                   Loops in Macros.     (line  56)
* {:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  96)
* |:                                     Building Vectors.    (line   9)
* }:                                     Basic Commands.      (line  96)
* ~:                                     Prefix Arguments.    (line  39)


File: calc,  Node: Command Index,  Next: Function Index,  Prev: Key Index,  Up: Top

Index of Calculator Commands
****************************

Since all Calculator commands begin with the prefix `calc-', the `x'
key has been provided as a variant of `M-x' which automatically types
`calc-' for you.  Thus, `x last-args' is short for `M-x calc-last-args'.

 [index ]
* Menu:

* another-calc:                          Multiple Calculators.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc:                                  Basic Commands.      (line   6)
* calc-abs:                              Basic Arithmetic.    (line 150)
* calc-abs (vectors):                    Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  19)
* calc-abssqr:                           Basic Arithmetic.    (line 160)
* calc-alg-evaluate:                     Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  15)
* calc-alg-simplify-mode:                Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  48)
* calc-algebraic-entry:                  Algebraic Entry.     (line   6)
* calc-algebraic-mode:                   Algebraic Entry.     (line  25)
* calc-alt-summation:                    Summations.          (line 104)
* calc-always-load-extensions:           General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  48)
* calc-and:                              Binary Functions.    (line  57)
* calc-apart:                            Polynomials.         (line 105)
* calc-apply:                            Reducing and Mapping.
                                                              (line   9)
* calc-arccos:                           Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-arccosh:                          Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-arcsin:                           Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  34)
* calc-arcsinh:                          Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* calc-arctan:                           Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-arctan2:                          Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* calc-arctanh:                          Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-argument:                         Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-arrange-vector:                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  23)
* calc-assign:                           Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  90)
* calc-auto-recompute <1>:               Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  41)
* calc-auto-recompute:                   Automatic Recomputation.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-auto-why:                         Error Messages.      (line  20)
* calc-autorange-units:                  Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 125)
* calc-base-units:                       Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 103)
* calc-bernoulli-number:                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  52)
* calc-bessel-J:                         Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  58)
* calc-bessel-Y:                         Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  58)
* calc-beta:                             Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  42)
* calc-big-language:                     Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  24)
* calc-bin-simplify-mode:                Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  41)
* calc-break:                            Loops in Macros.     (line  26)
* calc-break-selections:                 Making Selections.   (line  96)
* calc-break-vectors:                    Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  86)
* calc-build-vector:                     Building Vectors.    (line  80)
* calc-business-days-minus:              Business Days.       (line  13)
* calc-business-days-plus:               Business Days.       (line  13)
* calc-c-language:                       C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line   6)
* calc-ceiling:                          Integer Truncation.  (line  19)
* calc-center-justify:                   Justification.       (line   6)
* calc-change-sign:                      Basic Arithmetic.    (line 146)
* calc-choose:                           Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  42)
* calc-clean:                            Conversions.         (line  81)
* calc-clean-num:                        Conversions.         (line 101)
* calc-clear-selections:                 Making Selections.   (line 118)
* calc-clip:                             Binary Functions.    (line  26)
* calc-cnorm:                            Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  31)
* calc-collect:                          Polynomials.         (line  68)
* calc-commute-left:                     Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  32)
* calc-commute-right:                    Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-complex-notation:                 Complex Formats.     (line   6)
* calc-concat:                           Building Vectors.    (line   9)
* calc-conj:                             Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-conj-transpose:                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-cons:                             Building Vectors.    (line  92)
* calc-convert-percent:                  Percentages.         (line  34)
* calc-convert-temperature:              Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 113)
* calc-convert-time-zones:               Date Conversions.    (line  60)
* calc-convert-units:                    Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line  51)
* calc-copy-as-kill:                     Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* calc-copy-region-as-kill:              Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* calc-copy-special-constant:            Storing Variables.   (line 137)
* calc-copy-to-buffer:                   Yanking Into Buffers.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-copy-variable:                    Storing Variables.   (line 115)
* calc-cos:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-cosh:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-cot:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-coth:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-cross:                            Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  37)
* calc-csc:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-csch:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-curve-fit:                        Linear Fits.         (line   6)
* calc-date:                             Date Conversions.    (line   6)
* calc-date-notation:                    Date Formats.        (line   6)
* calc-date-part:                        Date Functions.      (line  11)
* calc-declare-variable:                 Declaration Basics.  (line   6)
* calc-decrement:                        Basic Arithmetic.    (line 212)
* calc-default-simplify-mode:            Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  36)
* calc-define-unit:                      User-Defined Units.  (line  27)
* calc-degrees-mode:                     Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* calc-del-selection:                    Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  77)
* calc-derivative:                       Differentiation.     (line   6)
* calc-describe-function:                Help Commands.       (line  67)
* calc-describe-key:                     Help Commands.       (line  41)
* calc-describe-key-briefly:             Help Commands.       (line  52)
* calc-describe-variable:                Help Commands.       (line  74)
* calc-diag:                             Building Vectors.    (line  32)
* calc-diff:                             Binary Functions.    (line  71)
* calc-display-strings:                  Strings.             (line  25)
* calc-divide:                           Basic Arithmetic.    (line  89)
* calc-dots:                             Incomplete Objects.  (line  32)
* calc-double-factorial:                 Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  34)
* calc-edit:                             Editing Stack Entries.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-edit-finish:                      Editing Stack Entries.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-edit-selection:                   Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  53)
* calc-edit-user-syntax:                 Syntax Tables.       (line  13)
* calc-edit-variable:                    Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-embedded:                         Basic Embedded Mode. (line   6)
* calc-embedded-activate:                Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  93)
* calc-embedded-duplicate:               More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  84)
* calc-embedded-edit:                    More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 134)
* calc-embedded-new-formula:             More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 115)
* calc-embedded-next:                    More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 123)
* calc-embedded-preserve-modes:          Mode Settings in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-embedded-previous:                More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line 123)
* calc-embedded-select:                  Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  51)
* calc-embedded-update-formula:          Assignments in Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  64)
* calc-embedded-word:                    Basic Embedded Mode. (line  53)
* calc-enable-selections:                Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-eng-notation:                     Float Formats.       (line  34)
* calc-enter:                            Stack Manipulation.  (line   6)
* calc-enter-selection:                  Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  43)
* calc-enter-units-table:                The Units Table.     (line   6)
* calc-eqn-language:                     Eqn Language Mode.   (line   6)
* calc-equal-to:                         Logical Operations.  (line  20)
* calc-erf:                              Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* calc-euler-number:                     Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  60)
* calc-eval-num:                         Symbolic Mode.       (line  17)
* calc-evalto:                           Evaluates-To Operator.
                                                              (line  22)
* calc-evaluate:                         Variables.           (line  30)
* calc-execute-extended-command:         Basic Commands.      (line  23)
* calc-exp:                              Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-expand:                           Polynomials.         (line  83)
* calc-expand-formula:                   Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  59)
* calc-expand-vector:                    Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 115)
* calc-explain-units:                    The Units Table.     (line  45)
* calc-expm1:                            Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  37)
* calc-ext-simplify-mode:                Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  53)
* calc-extended-gcd:                     Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  20)
* calc-extract-units:                    Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 118)
* calc-factor:                           Polynomials.         (line  13)
* calc-factorial:                        Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  24)
* calc-fdiv:                             Basic Arithmetic.    (line 138)
* calc-fin-ddb:                          Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* calc-fin-fv:                           Future Value.        (line   6)
* calc-fin-irr:                          Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  50)
* calc-fin-nper:                         Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  21)
* calc-fin-npv:                          Present Value.       (line  46)
* calc-fin-pmt:                          Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line   9)
* calc-fin-pv:                           Present Value.       (line   6)
* calc-fin-rate:                         Related Financial Functions.
                                                              (line  38)
* calc-fin-sln:                          Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-fin-syd:                          Depreciation Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* calc-find-maximum:                     Minimization.        (line   6)
* calc-find-minimum:                     Minimization.        (line   6)
* calc-find-root:                        Root Finding.        (line   6)
* calc-fix-notation:                     Float Formats.       (line  20)
* calc-flat-language:                    Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-float:                            Conversions.         (line   9)
* calc-floor:                            Integer Truncation.  (line  15)
* calc-flush-caches:                     Caches.              (line  19)
* calc-fortran-language:                 C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line  40)
* calc-frac-mode:                        Fraction Mode.       (line  13)
* calc-fraction:                         Conversions.         (line  40)
* calc-from-hms:                         Conversions.         (line  70)
* calc-full-help:                        Help Commands.       (line  12)
* calc-full-trail-vectors:               Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  78)
* calc-full-vectors:                     Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  71)
* calc-gamma:                            Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  18)
* calc-gcd:                              Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line   9)
* calc-get-modes:                        Modes Variable.      (line   6)
* calc-get-unit-definition:              The Units Table.     (line  35)
* calc-get-user-defn:                    Algebraic Definitions.
                                                              (line  75)
* calc-grab-rectangle:                   Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  37)
* calc-grab-region:                      Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-grab-selection:                   Operating on Selections.
                                                              (line  83)
* calc-grab-sum-across:                  Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  77)
* calc-grab-sum-down:                    Grabbing From Buffers.
                                                              (line  77)
* calc-grade:                            Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  53)
* calc-graph-add:                        Managing Curves.     (line  11)
* calc-graph-add-3d:                     Managing Curves.     (line  62)
* calc-graph-border:                     Graphics Options.    (line  13)
* calc-graph-clear:                      Basic Graphics.      (line  66)
* calc-graph-command:                    Devices.             (line 109)
* calc-graph-delete:                     Managing Curves.     (line  78)
* calc-graph-device:                     Devices.             (line   6)
* calc-graph-display:                    Devices.             (line  91)
* calc-graph-fast:                       Basic Graphics.      (line   6)
* calc-graph-fast-3d:                    Three Dimensional Graphics.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-graph-geometry:                   Devices.             (line  96)
* calc-graph-grid:                       Graphics Options.    (line   6)
* calc-graph-header:                     Graphics Options.    (line  45)
* calc-graph-hide:                       Managing Curves.     (line  83)
* calc-graph-juggle:                     Managing Curves.     (line  88)
* calc-graph-key:                        Graphics Options.    (line  17)
* calc-graph-kill:                       Devices.             (line 144)
* calc-graph-line-style:                 Graphics Options.    (line  89)
* calc-graph-log-x:                      Graphics Options.    (line  74)
* calc-graph-log-y:                      Graphics Options.    (line  74)
* calc-graph-log-z:                      Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* calc-graph-name:                       Graphics Options.    (line  49)
* calc-graph-num-points:                 Graphics Options.    (line  22)
* calc-graph-output:                     Devices.             (line  44)
* calc-graph-plot:                       Managing Curves.     (line  95)
* calc-graph-point-style:                Graphics Options.    (line  98)
* calc-graph-print:                      Managing Curves.     (line 126)
* calc-graph-quit:                       Devices.             (line 137)
* calc-graph-range-x:                    Graphics Options.    (line  65)
* calc-graph-range-y:                    Graphics Options.    (line  65)
* calc-graph-range-z:                    Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* calc-graph-title-x:                    Graphics Options.    (line  57)
* calc-graph-title-y:                    Graphics Options.    (line  57)
* calc-graph-title-z:                    Graphics Options.    (line  78)
* calc-graph-view-commands:              Devices.             (line 115)
* calc-graph-view-trail:                 Devices.             (line 115)
* calc-graph-zero-x:                     Graphics Options.    (line  82)
* calc-graph-zero-y:                     Graphics Options.    (line  82)
* calc-greater-equal:                    Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* calc-greater-than:                     Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* calc-group-char:                       Grouping Digits.     (line  20)
* calc-group-digits:                     Grouping Digits.     (line   6)
* calc-head:                             Building Vectors.    (line  87)
* calc-help:                             Help Commands.       (line   6)
* calc-histogram:                        Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  79)
* calc-hms-mode:                         Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* calc-hms-notation:                     HMS Formats.         (line   6)
* calc-hyperbolic:                       Inverse and Hyperbolic.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-hypot:                            Basic Arithmetic.    (line 177)
* calc-i-notation:                       Complex Formats.     (line  11)
* calc-ident:                            Building Vectors.    (line  45)
* calc-idiv:                             Basic Arithmetic.    (line 124)
* calc-ilog:                             Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* calc-im:                               Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  29)
* calc-imaginary:                        Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  19)
* calc-in-set:                           Logical Operations.  (line 109)
* calc-inc-beta:                         Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  47)
* calc-inc-gamma:                        Advanced Math Functions.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-inc-month:                        Date Functions.      (line  98)
* calc-increment:                        Basic Arithmetic.    (line 212)
* calc-index:                            Building Vectors.    (line  61)
* calc-infinite-mode:                    Infinite Mode.       (line  10)
* calc-info:                             Help Commands.       (line  20)
* calc-info-summary:                     Help Commands.       (line  37)
* calc-inner-product:                    Generalized Products.
                                                              (line  14)
* calc-insert-variables:                 Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  87)
* calc-integral:                         Integration.         (line   6)
* calc-inv:                              Basic Arithmetic.    (line 169)
* calc-inv (matrices):                   Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  41)
* calc-inverse:                          Inverse and Hyperbolic.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-isqrt:                            Basic Arithmetic.    (line 182)
* calc-j-notation:                       Complex Formats.     (line  11)
* calc-julian:                           Date Conversions.    (line  35)
* calc-kbd-else:                         Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-kbd-else-if:                      Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-kbd-end-for:                      Loops in Macros.     (line  33)
* calc-kbd-end-if:                       Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-kbd-end-loop:                     Loops in Macros.     (line  56)
* calc-kbd-end-repeat:                   Loops in Macros.     (line   6)
* calc-kbd-for:                          Loops in Macros.     (line  33)
* calc-kbd-if:                           Conditionals in Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-kbd-loop:                         Loops in Macros.     (line  56)
* calc-kbd-pop:                          Local Values in Macros.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-kbd-push:                         Local Values in Macros.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-kbd-query:                        Queries in Macros.   (line   6)
* calc-kbd-repeat:                       Loops in Macros.     (line   6)
* calc-keep-args:                        Keep Arguments.      (line   6)
* calc-keypad:                           Keypad Mode.         (line   6)
* calc-kill:                             Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* calc-kill-region:                      Killing From Stack.  (line   6)
* calc-last-args:                        Undo.                (line  29)
* calc-latex-language:                   TeX and LaTeX Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-lcm:                              Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-leading-zeros:                    Radix Modes.         (line  23)
* calc-left-justify:                     Justification.       (line   6)
* calc-left-label:                       Labels.              (line   6)
* calc-less-equal:                       Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* calc-less-recursion-depth:             Recursion Depth.     (line   6)
* calc-less-than:                        Logical Operations.  (line  51)
* calc-let:                              Let Command.         (line   6)
* calc-line-breaking:                    Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-line-numbering:                   Stack Basics.        (line  24)
* calc-ln:                               Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-lnp1:                             Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  41)
* calc-load-everything:                  Autoloading Problems.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-log:                              Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* calc-log10:                            Logarithmic Functions.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-logical-and:                      Logical Operations.  (line  75)
* calc-logical-if:                       Logical Operations.  (line  90)
* calc-logical-not:                      Logical Operations.  (line  86)
* calc-logical-or:                       Logical Operations.  (line  81)
* calc-lshift-arith:                     Binary Functions.    (line  97)
* calc-lshift-binary:                    Binary Functions.    (line  78)
* calc-ltpt:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  57)
* calc-mant-part:                        Basic Arithmetic.    (line 195)
* calc-map:                              Mapping.             (line   6)
* calc-map-equation:                     Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line  73)
* calc-maple-language:                   Maple Language Mode. (line   6)
* calc-mask-vector:                      Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 107)
* calc-match:                            Matching Commands.   (line   6)
* calc-mathematica-language:             Mathematica Language Mode.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-matrix-brackets:                  Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  28)
* calc-matrix-center-justify:            Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-matrix-left-justify:              Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-matrix-mode:                      Matrix Mode.         (line  11)
* calc-matrix-right-justify:             Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-max:                              Basic Arithmetic.    (line 189)
* calc-mcol:                             Extracting Elements. (line  44)
* calc-mdet:                             Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  52)
* calc-min:                              Basic Arithmetic.    (line 189)
* calc-minus:                            Basic Arithmetic.    (line  65)
* calc-mlud:                             Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  55)
* calc-mod:                              Basic Arithmetic.    (line 131)
* calc-mode:                             Basic Commands.      (line   6)
* calc-mode-record-mode:                 General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  18)
* calc-moebius:                          Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 122)
* calc-more-recursion-depth:             Recursion Depth.     (line   6)
* calc-mrow:                             Extracting Elements. (line   6)
* calc-mtrace:                           Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  62)
* calc-new-month:                        Date Functions.      (line  51)
* calc-new-week:                         Date Functions.      (line  68)
* calc-new-year:                         Date Functions.      (line  59)
* calc-next-prime:                       Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 103)
* calc-no-simplify-mode:                 Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  21)
* calc-normal-language:                  Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-normal-notation:                  Float Formats.       (line  12)
* calc-normalize-rat:                    Polynomials.         (line 112)
* calc-not:                              Binary Functions.    (line  75)
* calc-not-equal-to:                     Logical Operations.  (line  46)
* calc-now:                              Date Functions.      (line   6)
* calc-num-integral:                     Numerical Integration.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-num-prefix:                       Prefix Arguments.    (line  39)
* calc-num-simplify-mode:                Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  26)
* calc-or:                               Binary Functions.    (line  63)
* calc-other-window:                     Basic Commands.      (line  56)
* calc-outer-product:                    Generalized Products.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-over:                             Stack Manipulation.  (line  16)
* calc-over-notation:                    Fraction Formats.    (line   6)
* calc-pack <1>:                         Packing and Unpacking.
                                                              (line  11)
* calc-pack:                             Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  33)
* calc-pack-bits:                        Set Operations.      (line 111)
* calc-pascal-language:                  C FORTRAN Pascal.    (line  30)
* calc-percent:                          Percentages.         (line   6)
* calc-percent-change:                   Percentages.         (line  44)
* calc-perm:                             Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* calc-permanent-units:                  User-Defined Units.  (line  58)
* calc-permanent-variable:               Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  70)
* calc-pi:                               Scientific Functions.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-plus:                             Basic Arithmetic.    (line   6)
* calc-point-char:                       Float Formats.       (line  50)
* calc-polar:                            Conversions.         (line  73)
* calc-polar-mode:                       Polar Mode.          (line  12)
* calc-poly-div:                         Polynomials.         (line 119)
* calc-poly-div-rem:                     Polynomials.         (line 139)
* calc-poly-gcd:                         Polynomials.         (line 145)
* calc-poly-interp:                      Interpolation.       (line   6)
* calc-poly-rem:                         Polynomials.         (line 133)
* calc-poly-roots:                       Multiple Solutions.  (line  63)
* calc-pop:                              Stack Manipulation.  (line  23)
* calc-pop-above:                        Stack Manipulation.  (line  33)
* calc-power:                            Basic Arithmetic.    (line 113)
* calc-precision:                        Precision.           (line   6)
* calc-prev-prime:                       Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 115)
* calc-prime-factors:                    Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  93)
* calc-prime-test:                       Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  71)
* calc-product:                          Summations.          (line 116)
* calc-quick-units:                      User-Defined Units.  (line   9)
* calc-quit:                             Basic Commands.      (line  72)
* calc-radians-mode:                     Angular Modes.       (line  20)
* calc-radix:                            Radix Modes.         (line  19)
* calc-random:                           Random Numbers.      (line   6)
* calc-random-again:                     Random Numbers.      (line  63)
* calc-re:                               Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  24)
* calc-realign:                          Stack Basics.        (line  30)
* calc-recall:                           Recalling Variables. (line   6)
* calc-redo:                             Undo.                (line  21)
* calc-reduce:                           Reducing.            (line   6)
* calc-refresh:                          Basic Commands.      (line  83)
* calc-refresh-top:                      Display Modes.       (line  19)
* calc-remove-duplicates:                Set Operations.      (line  34)
* calc-remove-equal:                     Logical Operations.  (line  65)
* calc-remove-units:                     Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line 118)
* calc-reset:                            Basic Commands.      (line 100)
* calc-reverse-vector:                   Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line 101)
* calc-rewrite:                          Rewrite Rules.       (line   6)
* calc-rewrite-selection:                Selections with Rewrite Rules.
                                                              (line  12)
* calc-right-justify:                    Justification.       (line   6)
* calc-right-label:                      Labels.              (line  16)
* calc-rnorm:                            Vector and Matrix Arithmetic.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-roll-down:                        Stack Manipulation.  (line  39)
* calc-roll-up:                          Stack Manipulation.  (line  49)
* calc-rotate-binary:                    Binary Functions.    (line 111)
* calc-round:                            Integer Truncation.  (line  23)
* calc-rrandom:                          Random Numbers.      (line  60)
* calc-rshift-arith:                     Binary Functions.    (line 102)
* calc-rshift-binary:                    Binary Functions.    (line  93)
* calc-save-modes:                       General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-scale-float:                      Basic Arithmetic.    (line 206)
* calc-sci-notation:                     Float Formats.       (line  28)
* calc-scroll-down:                      Basic Commands.      (line  96)
* calc-scroll-left:                      Basic Commands.      (line  90)
* calc-scroll-right:                     Basic Commands.      (line  90)
* calc-scroll-up:                        Basic Commands.      (line  96)
* calc-sec:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-sech:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  65)
* calc-sel-add-both-sides:               Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 152)
* calc-sel-commute:                      Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  74)
* calc-sel-distribute:                   Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  41)
* calc-sel-div-both-sides:               Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 116)
* calc-sel-evaluate:                     Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 164)
* calc-sel-expand-formula:               Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 180)
* calc-sel-invert:                       Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  98)
* calc-sel-isolate:                      Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 109)
* calc-sel-jump-equals:                  Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 103)
* calc-sel-merge:                        Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  68)
* calc-sel-mult-both-sides:              Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 116)
* calc-sel-negate:                       Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line  90)
* calc-sel-sub-both-sides:               Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 152)
* calc-sel-unpack:                       Rearranging with Selections.
                                                              (line 158)
* calc-select-additional:                Making Selections.   (line  66)
* calc-select-here:                      Making Selections.   (line   6)
* calc-select-here-maybe:                Making Selections.   (line  83)
* calc-select-less:                      Changing Selections. (line  29)
* calc-select-more:                      Changing Selections. (line   6)
* calc-select-next:                      Changing Selections. (line  49)
* calc-select-once:                      Making Selections.   (line  73)
* calc-select-once-maybe:                Making Selections.   (line  83)
* calc-select-part:                      Changing Selections. (line  35)
* calc-select-previous:                  Changing Selections. (line  49)
* calc-set-cardinality:                  Set Operations.      (line  95)
* calc-set-complement:                   Set Operations.      (line  70)
* calc-set-difference:                   Set Operations.      (line  55)
* calc-set-enumerate:                    Set Operations.      (line  84)
* calc-set-floor:                        Set Operations.      (line  75)
* calc-set-intersect:                    Set Operations.      (line  47)
* calc-set-span:                         Set Operations.      (line  89)
* calc-set-union:                        Set Operations.      (line  42)
* calc-set-xor:                          Set Operations.      (line  65)
* calc-settings-file-name:               General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  27)
* calc-shift-prefix:                     General Mode Commands.
                                                              (line  57)
* calc-show-plain:                       More About Embedded Mode.
                                                              (line  19)
* calc-show-selections:                  Displaying Selections.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-shuffle:                          Random Numbers.      (line  67)
* calc-sign:                             Basic Arithmetic.    (line 163)
* calc-simplify:                         Simplifying Formulas.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-simplify-extended:                Unsafe Simplifications.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-simplify-units:                   Basic Operations on Units.
                                                              (line  31)
* calc-sin:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-sincos:                           Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  59)
* calc-sinh:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* calc-solve-for:                        Solving Equations.   (line   6)
* calc-sort:                             Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  39)
* calc-sqrt:                             Basic Arithmetic.    (line 173)
* calc-stirling-number:                  Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line  64)
* calc-store:                            Storing Variables.   (line   6)
* calc-store-AlgSimpRules:               Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-concat:                     Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-Decls:                      Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-decr:                       Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-div:                        Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-EvalRules:                  Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-exchange:                   Storing Variables.   (line 102)
* calc-store-ExtSimpRules:               Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-FitRules:                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-GenCount:                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-Holidays:                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-incr:                       Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-IntegLimit:                 Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-into:                       Storing Variables.   (line  12)
* calc-store-inv:                        Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-LineStyles:                 Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-map:                        Storing Variables.   (line  84)
* calc-store-minus:                      Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-neg:                        Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-PlotRejects:                Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-plus:                       Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-PointStyles:                Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-power:                      Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-times:                      Storing Variables.   (line  41)
* calc-store-TimeZone:                   Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-store-Units:                      Operations on Variables.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-subscript:                        Extracting Elements. (line  24)
* calc-substitute:                       Algebraic Manipulation.
                                                              (line 109)
* calc-subvector:                        Extracting Elements. (line  57)
* calc-summation:                        Summations.          (line   6)
* calc-symbolic-mode:                    Symbolic Mode.       (line  12)
* calc-tabulate:                         Summations.          (line 122)
* calc-tail:                             Building Vectors.    (line  87)
* calc-tan:                              Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-tanh:                             Trigonometric and Hyperbolic Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-taylor:                           Taylor Series.       (line   6)
* calc-tex-language:                     TeX and LaTeX Language Modes.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-time:                             HMS Forms.           (line  29)
* calc-time-zone:                        Time Zones.          (line  30)
* calc-times:                            Basic Arithmetic.    (line  70)
* calc-timing:                           Debugging Calc.      (line  10)
* calc-to-degrees:                       Conversions.         (line  56)
* calc-to-hms:                           Conversions.         (line  64)
* calc-to-radians:                       Conversions.         (line  61)
* calc-total-algebraic-mode:             Algebraic Entry.     (line  39)
* calc-totient:                          Combinatorial Functions.
                                                              (line 118)
* calc-trail-backward:                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* calc-trail-display:                    Trail Commands.      (line   9)
* calc-trail-first:                      Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* calc-trail-forward:                    Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* calc-trail-here:                       Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* calc-trail-in:                         Trail Commands.      (line  19)
* calc-trail-isearch-backward:           Trail Commands.      (line  53)
* calc-trail-isearch-forward:            Trail Commands.      (line  53)
* calc-trail-kill:                       Trail Commands.      (line  66)
* calc-trail-last:                       Trail Commands.      (line  47)
* calc-trail-marker:                     Trail Commands.      (line  60)
* calc-trail-next:                       Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* calc-trail-out:                        Trail Commands.      (line  19)
* calc-trail-previous:                   Trail Commands.      (line  40)
* calc-trail-scroll-left:                Trail Commands.      (line  36)
* calc-trail-scroll-right:               Trail Commands.      (line  36)
* calc-trail-yank:                       Trail Commands.      (line  30)
* calc-transpose:                        Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  96)
* calc-trunc:                            Integer Truncation.  (line  29)
* calc-truncate-down:                    Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-truncate-stack:                   Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-truncate-up:                      Truncating the Stack.
                                                              (line  25)
* calc-tutorial:                         Help Commands.       (line  29)
* calc-undefine-unit:                    User-Defined Units.  (line  35)
* calc-undo:                             Undo.                (line   6)
* calc-unformatted-language:             Normal Language Modes.
                                                              (line  67)
* calc-units-simplify-mode:              Simplification Modes.
                                                              (line  57)
* calc-unix-time:                        Date Conversions.    (line  50)
* calc-unpack <1>:                       Packing and Unpacking.
                                                              (line 124)
* calc-unpack:                           Complex Number Functions.
                                                              (line  39)
* calc-unpack-bits:                      Set Operations.      (line 111)
* calc-unselect:                         Making Selections.   (line 113)
* calc-unstore:                          Storing Variables.   (line 110)
* calc-user-define:                      Creating User Keys.  (line   6)
* calc-user-define-composition:          User-Defined Compositions.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-user-define-edit:                 Creating User Keys.  (line  60)
* calc-user-define-formula:              Algebraic Definitions.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-user-define-invocation:           Invocation Macros.   (line   6)
* calc-user-define-kbd-macro:            Naming Keyboard Macros.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-user-define-permanent:            Creating User Keys.  (line  36)
* calc-user-invocation:                  Invocation Macros.   (line   6)
* calc-user-undefine:                    Creating User Keys.  (line  32)
* calc-utpb:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  22)
* calc-utpc:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  40)
* calc-utpf:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  44)
* calc-utpn:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  49)
* calc-utpp:                             Probability Distribution Functions.
                                                              (line  53)
* calc-vector-braces:                    Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* calc-vector-brackets:                  Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* calc-vector-commas:                    Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  59)
* calc-vector-correlation:               Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  28)
* calc-vector-count:                     Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  36)
* calc-vector-covariance:                Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  13)
* calc-vector-find:                      Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line  16)
* calc-vector-geometric-mean:            Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 103)
* calc-vector-harmonic-mean:             Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  99)
* calc-vector-max:                       Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  48)
* calc-vector-mean:                      Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  55)
* calc-vector-mean-error:                Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  73)
* calc-vector-median:                    Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  85)
* calc-vector-min:                       Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  48)
* calc-vector-parens:                    Vector and Matrix Formats.
                                                              (line  17)
* calc-vector-pop-covariance:            Paired-Sample Statistics.
                                                              (line  24)
* calc-vector-pop-sdev:                  Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 130)
* calc-vector-pop-variance:              Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 143)
* calc-vector-prod:                      Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  42)
* calc-vector-sdev:                      Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 116)
* calc-vector-sum:                       Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line  42)
* calc-vector-variance:                  Single-Variable Statistics.
                                                              (line 143)
* calc-version:                          Basic Commands.      (line 112)
* calc-view-units-table:                 The Units Table.     (line  27)
* calc-vlength:                          Manipulating Vectors.
                                                              (line   6)
* calc-why:                              Error Messages.      (line   6)
* calc-word-size:                        Binary Functions.    (line  35)
* calc-working:                          Working Message.     (line  14)
* calc-xor:                              Binary Functions.    (line  67)
* calc-xpon-part:                        Basic Arithmetic.    (line 195)
* calc-yank:                             Yanking Into Stack.  (line   6)
* describe-bindings:                     Help Commands.       (line  77)
* full-calc:                             Basic Commands.      (line  48)
* full-calc-keypad:                      Keypad Mode.         (line  13)
* quick-calc:                            Quick Calculator.    (line   6)
* read-kbd-macro:                        Naming Keyboard Macros.
                                                              (line  39)

